Madhuri Dixit is a name that I don't know about.
Indian Cinema Incomplete.
What's a bigger blessing? career success and
Your husband?
I Think a Bigger Blessing Is My Husband?
Why?
Because if you achieve anything you have
Non to share it with. may you find happiness
She can't.
Which Film Did You Show Your Children
First?
In such houses it is not possible to come
Children. Watch this film of mine. not like that
It happens.
How did you explain madhuri dixit to
Your own children?
Well They Didn't Know Anything Till We Moved
Here because some children come to school
Used to say you are so lucky. Said why? because
You are your mother Madhuri Dixit you are very
Lucky.
Your expressions during dancing. you are
Effortless in these two moments.
People say you are very natural. you
So we do it effortlessly. Effortlessly
No. Haven't you seen how much is behind this?
It is hard work. practice for five-five hours
To do everything. There was a lot of hard work behind everything.
When you used to act so much love
It used to come out of expression, you are more
Must have been romantic.
Yes I love to love. Just thinking about love is
Like romantic to me. So here you are, a stone
Give it to me also. so i can romance
Stone also.
Is It Right to Just Work Hard and Keep Up
Moving Forward and Then Wait for Destiny
To happen.
If You're Working Hard You're Not Waiting For
Destiny to Happen. If you're sitting at home
And not doing anything saying that oh me
If something like this is found then it is wrong.
Was the experience of fame like that for you? and
After that you went to USA.
She was famous as soon as she entered the house.
I used to leave everything outside the door and go home
In. I was very romantic. i want a
House and a husband and children. That was a
Big part of my dream. so when i'm there
I was living my dream. i was
Not missing anything in my life.
I come up with a lot of ideas for every episode.
I am. I think a lot about every guess.
I am coming. Today only one word is visible
Another word that comes to my mind is magic.
Today is going to be a magical episode Madhuri
With Dixit. How are you ma'am?
I am absolutely fine. How are you? I'm liking it. This is a very good life moment that your
Getting a chance to talk together.
And this episode I don't know is the next one
People will watch for 30 years. that inside me
Know inside.
My God 30 years. that's a lot of 30 years
Went.
This number has been visible for 30 years.
Good.
Yes.
Let go.
Do you think so?
I don't know you know
Till now I have worked for 40 years in this
In the industry.
and these are 40 years
And they have been very good. people told me
Liked it very much. I still have fans today
30 more years
Let's see.
There are so many questions for you. like
Genuine question.
Yes.
Meaning the silly question is that your skin care
I would like to ask about the routine.
Actually a light appears on your face
Is.
So And I'm Not Just Saying That Now
Because you're in front of me.
That this was genuinely my thought in childhood
When I saw Dil To Pagal Hai.
Why does this queen have light coming out
Off every. Now I apply the same thought to skin care.
Would like to connect with.
Actually skin care, no matter how much you do
Put it in but 'til you don't have that thing in mind
A positivity. you know a comness
and
A way of looking at life You Know That
Beauty is not skin deep it comes from within
It's from Inside and That's Something
Else You Have to Work on Not Just Putting Up
Lotions and Potions on Your Face
What is your perspective on life?
means very positive about everything
I never think negatively about anyone
About I Love to Meet People I Love People
I love talking to people.
knowing about others, about their lives
To know about. you know and
Like I said what am I, who am I
etc. This never affects me.
Because I'm very simple. I'm very down
Down to earth, very positive kind of a person.
I think that also helps. and sometimes came
Do a little bit of meditation also. this also
There is a lot.
What do I do? very variant two
Meditate either Omkar or I.
Love Gayatri Mantra So I Say Gayatri Mantra
ok
sometimes at
Whenever I Feel Like
ok
And that may be done twice a day
Or sometimes twice a week, sometimes every day
Done in a week so it depends on what
To prepare for this conversation, I
Your Old Rondeau V Simi Agarwal
watched the episode
ok
I think you were very evolved even then
It was roughy 2002 2, 2003 type something like that
Was.
Yes.
And honestly, before watching that episode
I felt like I was an art with you
Will do conversation. We'll talk about
Life.
Your intensity was visible in that episode. you have
I worked very hard to become Madhuri Dixit
For.
A film was being released at that time.
Me too Madhuri Madhuri
I want to be Madhuri Dixit.
I want to be Madhuri Dixit. so
Simmi Grewal ma'am asked you how you did
it? And all your intensity came out that you
Have worked very hard. you treated everyone
Film Like It's Your Last.
Yes, where did that intensity come from?
Meaning, that breed is in me. I have since childhood
I have learned Kathak since I was three years old.
So we used to practice it for two hours a day.
No everyday, sometimes one hour, sometimes two more hours
Worked very hard for that.
Whatever had to be done in school, I used to do it.
Work Hard at Everything That I Did. So,
That is the lesson. he from my my parents
I have learned that you have to work.
Hard in Life and Treat Everything as If
This means it's my last one. i after this
I don't know about tomorrow. but today is
Something I Live For. So everyday I'm living
For today. So if I'm doing this interview
Huh, I won't do it flippantly. i will
Never be unintentional. I won't say no
Come on, say anything like this. So I always will
Give it my all
you know
You are 100% yes 100% always
And that's why you moved forward
You should also get off course success, then you
When you move forward, the hard work is yours.
But when you get success then take a step forward
You grow. Then you work hard. then again
If you get success then you move ahead. but
You will always see a self at every step.
There should be awareness. what's next for you always
I should think about what I am going to do. So I thought
All these factors like add to how you
to your life
Let's lead. you know
Some random tangents from my own mind
Would like to remove. Then we move on.
Ok? So this may not be value adding
For the audience. I just do it for myself
I am staying. Okay, good. never even for myself
Should it be done? Something. Yes.
A but I don't feel too bad, it means not bad.
I find it very boring when people look at me
Give bouquets. Ok?
bouquet? Good.
Like I Feel It's a Very Clueish Thing
To give someone a bouquet.
Meaning you feel that is not well thought
Out. Meaning you took the easiest way out. that he
They carry bouquets.
It is a very generic thing that at every event someone
Is given a bouquet.
And I Don't Think There's Any Thought Behind
it.
Ok. So you have to give one thing. a but please
Don't Look at a Bouquet. Just Look At It
S Flowers.
Meaning they are getting worse.
Yes You Want Me to Think Differently.
Oh thank you so much. Well the athlete I can think
Give all everyday.
Pink Rose. Thank you. sweet.
Thank you for getting the thought. Ye Thought Ko Land
Had to get it done. That's from my childhood too
U.
Oh! How lovely. So just really wanted to
Give This and Get It Out of the Way.
Your childhood was very pinky pinky.
Yes the flowers remind me of you. and u
Remind me the flowers. I thought I
bring sunflowers
Or bring lilies. But me pink rose to you
Had to give.
How sweet. So It's Not Like Completely
Not thought out.
No no, this is a mistake after thinking very carefully.
Gone.
You brought it thoughtfully. Thank you so much.
That's way sweet. But sometimes I feel that
So many people so crazy about you
Have done such things. what are these mistakes
For you. People liked your paintings
Is made. You have been people's muse.
A How did you process that?
I Think I Process That Age
Eclects From One Artist to Another. like
A compliment from one artist to another
praised him, because of that he
Made me your muse in your paintings
Whatever person he is, he used his paintings.
in
Also talk specifically about MF Hussain
g mf hussain ji and he
Series of paintings in which I am the character
I thought I was a character in his painting
It's like a compliment
From one artist to another and his art
I have also been a fan because I
I knew that Hussain ji was a very hodgepodge.
Used to paint. he was in my mind when
I met him for the first time and when he
When such a great artist tells you that
your film me you who were in the film
Liked it very much. Every one of your nose films
They told me that's how I felt
That It I Was Flattered But Flat
Flattered is a very shallow word. i was
Very grateful. I was very happy.
You know that's like.
Do You Still Get Flattered at All?
It's Always Good to Hear Compliments.
If someone compliments then it's good
It seems. You Know It's Because It's a Positive
Ahh feedback. It's a positive energy. and so
Or I like compliments. Why not?
Hmm.
The Compliments Will Come As We Move For
I hope the flowers are digested as a
compliment
It is it is thank you so much
Which Film Did You Show Your Children
first
You know it doesn't happen like this
good
In such houses it is not possible to come
Children, watch this film of mine, it does not happen like this
is
That's not life
When did this conversation happen and what was said?
you? Ne Like How Did You Explain
Madhuri Dixit to your own children?
Well They Didn't Know Anything Till We Moved Here
And we were going in the car. watch a movie
Went to PVR, when came out, so many
Photographers Got Confused About What
is happening? Chuck Chuck Chuck Chuck Everybody Clicking
Like that and they were like mom gets confused
Gone poor guy. Then after going home he asked mom
What's happening. So I said like this
Is. I'm an Actress and That's Why
Wanted picture with all of us you know together.
There was no idea.
Meaning they didn't know that much. give
six and 8
And that's why we lived there so much
There was no influence of all this then Dheedhi
Realized I am because someone in school
Children used to come and say, you are so lucky.
Why because your mother is madhuri dixit you
Are very lucky
Say but mom you are you are a mom said yes I
Am Your Mom Saying Why She's Saying You Are
Lucky
So such incidents used to happen but now I mean
I think they've seen more of my
Films After They Went to College. because of
There friends.
All because of his Indian friends
Say They Have Seen More Movies Of Mind Than They
Have their entire life.
If I Was Madhuri Dixit I Would Show All
My Filmography to My Kids.
But I am not Madhuri Dixit.
Hey If You Madhuri Dixit You Had Kids You
Won't have. Same thing happens. in homes like this
Doesn't happen.
Achcha have you seen Dil to pagal hai.
I saw it recently. my older guy has
Seen it recently. The heart is crazy.
So what did you say after watching?
He loved the movie.
He said mom came here you never showed us this
Movie. I told you were you ever interested?
In watching these movies? Because otherwise they use to
Be watching cartoons and super hero movies,
Right? They did and they did understand
Hindi.
After they moved here, now they just
Started talking in Marathi and Hindi and
All that. Till then he did not know. hindi
She was not coming. Hmm There Are Some People Who Have
Visualize Being on the Show a Lot
So you're definitely in that category
It's also an outcome of life because I feel
That this is art for us and art is open
An Outcome of Childhood Itni Baar Dil To
She is crazy, she has seen, we are yours, who has seen?
I'm Sure You're Used to This Kind of
Things From People That We Love
It's Always Great to Know That Your
Art is something people have done in their lives.
Have you felt its impact?
Because for you it meant a role.
Whatever role I played but many people came
They say, my heart is crazy at that time.
I met my girlfriend in the theater
We met and from there our You Know We Fell In
Love from there or say fun mother
After watching Many Families Kind of
Got back together you know ah or we're here
Who has some memories after seeing him?
Whoever came and touched them remembered their daughter.
She came or something like this happened in our house too.
You Know These Kinds of Things That Impact
Isn't it more important?
of art
Yes the impact that art has on people
That is more important in life. and
That's What I Love to Hear About. or r
You are aware that all the Kathak training
There are classes or if a higher level
Dancing training is taking place. a lot
All the coaches say that Madhuri Dixit's
Dance like that. Like I'm aware of
Dec. a lot of my friends are trend dancers
Are.
Spoke to Them About This Episode. and those
Said this is the level of the art that
Bean Showcased. So you know this?
That's way sweet. I Mean Of Course People Come
And tell me we do your dances.
Follow you. like you
Meaning, the way your organs are formed
We have to do it. and
But my ideals are different. which
Whom I want to follow. you know
Like Maharaj Ji Ho, Birju Maharaj Ji Ho
You are Saroj Khan and these are my gurus.
I follow. so i thought
Like I was saying about Impact.
These are the people who make another impact with their art.
The impact you create for people
Maybe they think this is ideal.
This is how we have to do it. a lot of hard work for that
I have done it. You Know Rehears a Lot for the
Songs. When I worked with Saroj ji
Had done. We had decided that because the first
The song we did together, Tezaab Vo Itna
became a big hit so I knew that a lot
We are going to do all the songs together in the future
We made a pact by the third and fourth
Song that we will not repeat the steps
Will do something new for people every time
When We Come Together So That's Kind Of
Things Which We Think About I Think When People
These things are said and I feel that those who
The thought we had and the hard work we had put in
she brought that color
It Was Worth It All the Times
we we
I know algorithms have become very powerful.
are these days
Okay so when you look at people's algorithms
you reach
It's often related to your expressions
During Dancing and You Know Yours
Expressions while performing a
Because of what was going on inside?
I Tried Analyzing a Lot of Yours
Performance and I felt that it was a very
The mark of a hard-working artist is that
There's a lot going on in the background. butt on the
The surface is being shown as pure art.
Am I Right and Saying That and You Are
Effortless in these two moments.
No no, not too much to look effortless
Effort is put behind it. even razer fedor joe
He is also a tennis player once.
I said in the interview this is the thing that I am very fond of
I believe he said hey people
They say you are very natural
I do it effortlessly, I said it effortlessly
No, haven't you seen how much is behind it?
Hard work is to practice five hours a day you know
Doing all this is practice behind every song.
there was involvement
Behind every scene you know when you
Practice It Looks Effortless When You
Do it you know, it was a lot of hard work for everything
behind
Because of that hard work your heart never gets affected
What happened like did your mental health get
You used to be affected and put pressure on yourself.
I am yes because I always want to do
My best means whatever I do, I like it.
Should. So there was a lot of thought behind it.
Is. one
Then what happens when you do things like this
So the disappointment can also be very high.
Because something doesn't work so hard
But it works but I think my mom who
She was a very strong personality.
In life and she was my backbone
She showed me a lot of strength and she has
Taught me to be strong you know how
If you want to remain strong, you have to go through failures too.
That's how you treat failures.
Also Decides What Kind of a Person You Are
If you know then I want that success.
Be it failure or success, so much
This is it, if there is a failure then it is that much lower.
Meaning There's a Balance You Need To
Have in life and that's what my mother gave me
taught
mom took care
yes mom has handled a lot
Means like for example your in 90s
What was life like behind the scenes?
was it like
Hectic and hectic because there we
Used to work two shifts each. how can one now
Do films at one time? so 3 months
That film ends. then you move
On to the next project. Right? but
That's why we do multiple projects together
Were. Like there were eight films, nine films
Used to be. So what happened to them?
Schedules Used to Never Be Organized.
That means, we still have to shoot. that
The producer has come. they shot them
Have to do. 10 days of shooting have already been done
Is. So now they are going to shoot next month
Are. But now it's clashing with somebody
Else We Have Already Given Dates To. so
Then what did we do? Split the Day Between
The two. So half a day for them, half a day for them
For. So there used to be two shifts and then you know.
So we've done work like that. so much
Hard work and a lot. So that's why to have a mom in
My life was one drop for me
It was a blessing because whenever I got tired or something
It's like being frustrated about something
The presence of my mother was very relaxing.
Tha soothing you know and
Chaos Madhe Aaye Aaye
yes chaos madhe you are right
Aunty came
Came and I Always Used to Fall Back on Her
And She She Was She Was a Dynamo Actually
we silly question
But in the 90s, mid 90s or early 90s, you
ever thought about seeing a doctor
Is it husband or marriage?
Far from I thought Far from ever thought
Was not there and my siblings were always
They use to try to match make you know me then
Do you think I have such a friend?
Looks like I'm like don't even there do
That. I'm not interested right now.
Why?
So Because I Love What I Did. my
Career Was Like Everyday Was Fun and Me
It seemed that no man knew if he was wrong
If you get it then the fun is all you will know.
And I Didn't Really Just Love What
I Was Doing At That Point. so I never
Didn't even think that you know everybody
Dreams there will be some prince who will come.
You Know This Kind of Thing No Prince and
Fairy Tale Kind of a Thing for Me I Was
Having Too Much Fun Doing What I Was
Doing.
And I'm thinking that when you act
there was so much love
Through expression or on screen, you too
Might have been more romantic. your own
Because of your work
Was the love energy also increasing.
Yes my my the love towards my work and
Just the love I have in my heart. Ok. Not
not for
Not for a particular not the hero standing
In Front Not Just Love Just Love You Know I
I love love to love just thinking about love is
Like romantic to me, you are also a stone
Give it to me so I can romance
stone also
Hmm, now I have to tell the audience one thing.
I would like time with the doctor
told
You didn't do any magic on them like this on me
It seems because no husband no husband
Talk So Much Romantically About Their Wife
Life in my experience. I have not met
Another man.
I'm so lucky to have met one
From a romantic man. you know
and
He is amazing. There is an end, right?
There should be mutual respect. one
There should be mutual love. a mutual
There should be admiration. u for each other
Should feel you should encourage each other to do stuff.
So always encourage me. the is
always
you know
Positive about whatever I'm doing. u
No that always helps
I have also done an episode with him where
I got to know his heart.
And she is the Madhuri Dixit of her world.
Yes.
You know as a surgeon, as an investor, as an
Entrepreneur.
Many people know him only as a surgeon.
They Don't Even Know What He Has Achieved As A
Surgeon.
I came to know about that after the podcast. we
And I thought what kind of house you both have.
There must be energy that two electric humans
Is together. Growth oriented etc and in
Public, both of you are very cool and sweet.
we
But a true and intense growth mindset
I think it's a great combination of art
and science
You know and what we intersect
people's wellness
You know health and their
What do you know about spiritual health?
All Do's Things
We Intersect at That Junction
You had an arranged marriage, right?
Not really it wasn't really
We Were Introduced by My Brother
ok
But We Dated for Six Months Before We
Actually Decided That We Are Right
For Each Other and We Should Get Married
So how did you decide that this is my
Will become husband
It's It's a Feeling You Get It's a Feeling
It's It's You Can't Explain It You
Can't explain this thing
A voice comes from within. one
I get the feeling that
in group
Gut feeling that this is the right person for me
we
The way they behave means their
When he talked about patients
I have to be so concerned about them all
Time you know today this is how fighting happened
For two of his patients he was fighting with the
The authorities should give him the hospital.
Get Hard for Her Whatever So So Many
To be so concerned only for patients
His bed side manners were amazing
Very caring about everyone, not like that
Hey, she is my wife so that man is taking care of her.
he is standing why didn't he drink water
Did he do this Do you know he is very
Caring Is Naturally That Way and It Is
Very well rare he is very intelligent he
a lot
Means like you said investments whether
Whatever it may be, even photography likes when we
The song was shot by me
Shot at home during Covid because
I Wanted to Release One of the Songs I Had
The name of the song was 'Candle' when it was recorded.
They Because There Wasn't To Pick
Picture: No one was able to come, no one was able to go.
When I couldn't do it, I said okay, I will do it.
I take pictures only then I study.
Everything now when a camera comes to the house
Know everything about the camera
Which lens is worn by Will so even the
The Photographer Gets Like Oh My God How She Does
He Knows So Much About It That's why I am someone
Goes in depth. you know if you want to do anything
If yes, then it is absolutely in depth on him.
Learn everything about it only by thinking.
And I love those qualities in him.
Is your husband the biggest person in your life?
Blessings?
I Think We're a Blessing in Each Other
Lives.
Both from each other.
Yes. Absolutely. And my kids are the
Biggest Blessings.
without day
Both of them. Other than anything.
Really really.
or or
Wow. Ok. So ok. A separate one for kids
Category is. Ok? But if I told you these
The spot and asked you what's a
Big Blessing? Your career success and your
Husband what do you say?
Look, I have a career
And there will be but I think the bigger blessing is
My husband. Why?
because
You Know If You're Not Happy in Your Actual
life
If you are not happy in your life then you
Achieve anything. may you find happiness
She can't. Because You Have No One
To share it with.
We are so my when I am successful success
So everyone is watching but what I feel is
I have to share it with someone my
Success. And When I Can Share It So
Beautifully with my husband. i think
His anger increases. like better than the
Career wise or do anything else. because
Finally One Day People Are Going to Forget You
you know end
Who is going to be with you? Your Companion The
Energy That's Going to Be With You Always.
So I Think That's Why He Takes a Big
Proceed.
What is the most important thing in life?
Oh my god. the most important thing in life
I Think Love Is the Most Thing You Need
In life.
This is one of the biggest superstars of the
Film Industry Ever Saying That Love Is
Morant.
Yes absolutely.
Right?
Absolutely.
I think this will become known with time
Is. I have to take a tangent out of my mind right now.
Would like. And again a very important question for you
I would like to ask.
Hmm.
A divine for me according to my religion
Is a woman." Is the form of a woman. And
Ever since this switch changed in my life,
I have noticed that throughout my life the last 32
Very strong in my life for years
There were women and now even stronger women have come.
are being
From the front.
we
And I Also Look at This Podcast as a
Form of that same energy genuine. this me
Was telling the team also. A. Okay? so on
Behalf of Strong Women Asking a Question
Would like. especially in Indian society
All women have to give up their careers
Reaching Their Potential for Marriage
before
I think you've reached your potential. Like
Push Yourself Hard Give Everything and Then
You went for marriage
Do you believe this statement to be true or do I?
I am saying something wrong, first tell me that and then
In general, tell me about this thing that you do
Ever Think of This Reality as Well for
Indian women in general?
Or I agree with you. I am Indian Indian
Not only women, women all over the all over the
World. Because what happens when you get married?
You become a family unit.
It's a Unit and You're Part of That
Unit. And Whatever You Do That Unit Will
Always be part of that. Do you understand? so if
You have to know your unit, your unit.
From Mother in Law, Father in Law, Husband, Children
Unless you get their support, you will move ahead.
Cannot grow. You can't do anything. their
Support is very, very important. if
If you want to move ahead in life and do something.
So I always say that I am also very
I am lucky that after I got married
I got the support of my family. because
My mother in law is herself educated.
Are. She herself you know she does real estate there
And She Still Works. She is eddie plus she
Still Works. My father-in-law too
Just retired. turn only after
AD3 You Know And He Even After That Works
With Fima. Like someone like this
If a disaster happens then you should go there.
Civil Engineer. So do all that
There is loss, it is like that. he still does
That. So I got married in such a family.
Where Everybody Is Working and Giving
understand
That for a woman to have her identity is
Also variant. They know that they
Working myself. They know that home
Yes, I can handle it. but also very
It is important that I am an individual
I am doing something. And I'm happy with
That. And I am an individual
I am also doing something for my unit.
Because you are also
Contributing to Your Own Unit You Know. so
When these things
You know when people and anchorage understand
Do this to your daughter or daughter-in-law or anyone
also to go out there and do something with
Their Lives. Only then can that thing be made. and
A lot of times we don't get that.
Everybody's Sometime Are Narrow Minded. give r
Like no, the woman of the house cannot go out.
She can't work. It won't be this. home
Have to stay here. So when that thing happens
It's Very Hard for a Woman to Step
Out.
Do you know there is a subject called Anthropology?
Is. That means study of human society.
Study of society.
Yes. So if you study successful countries
Will they add 50% to their work force?
There are women.
Meaning, all the women in the country are doing all the work.
Are in force.
That's Something We Can Work On As A
Country as well. i feel
Absolutely. Like give like education
Also called for. If You Educate One Woman You
Educate a Family.
family or
you know ya
Because She Influences the Family. she has
Kids She'll Teach Them. She Will Teach Everyone
Around her because a woman is very nurturing.
She Is Always Giving You Know.
So there are boys like me who are married now.
And my parents, what will you do to all of us?
Will you give advice?
Well I would say that the girl who is from your family
She is also coming, she is your daughter.
And I would say that you should encourage her to do
Something That She Loves Doing To. and if he
She wants to go and do something so you should encourage.
Every You Should Later Do It Because
That's Her Right You Know That's Her Right To
Do
Hum Hum I Think This Will Change In Time You Know
We Will Become More Progressive
Oh yes absolutely, take a look now, already?
i see the change
I Already See the Change Every Family Has
Like husband and wife also they are always a
double income family
you know
What year did you get married?
99 O 99 Bade Mian Chhote Mian Roughly Okay
Assume that Bade Mian is the younger Mian when you shoot.
What was going on in your mind while you were doing it?
Tha Not About The Film It's A Great Film
But not about that movie about life kya
was going on in your mind
I Don't Think I Was Thinking About Life
At that time. I'm Just Thinking About
How fun is this, Amit ji on one side
Govinda and I are dancing side by side
am dancing with them
Some life I wasn't thinking about
I was just having fun in that
Moment that this is amazing you know this I love
doing
I am about the late 90s and premarriage face.
I want to know if this is the one we talked about
just did it
Yes
These thoughts were in your mind post marriage
Career or the way you think about your whole career
and so on
No, every time I took this decision
That I'm going to get married so my
This question did not come to my mind that hey marriage
What will happen to my career if I do this now?
What will happen to me, what will happen to him?
Was Like I Like This Guy I Love This
Man and I feel like it's for me
correct
You know life partner and I want to
Mary Him I Just Took the Decision and I
Married Him I didn't think that just now
What will happen to career? do i want movies
Will you meet? If we don't meet, what's going to happen?
Is it? Never Thought About That. Did give it a
Thought.
Ok. Here I give Jajis a context
Would like to give. S Someone Born In 93 K I
Don't Think It's the Case Any More. like
Shahrukh Khan says he is the last of
The Stars. There is some truth in that
Statement. Not Complete Truth, Some Truth.
Butt, there lived an absolute queen's throne
In the film industry. And your example
Was used as someone who was on that threw us
And I Remember Even the Actors Who Came
After You Everyone Was Compared to You and
What you have achieved is that fame for you
What was your experience and after that you
went to usa
where there was a little quiet life
or
I liked the quiet life so much.
I liked it from Like I Always When I
When I was working here too, the fame I had was like this.
That was when I used to go into the house, right?
I used to leave all that outside the door.
At home I was a daughter I was a
Sister You Know I Was Like Anybody Else
Like I Was Just Me
And so because of that when I got married
When I went there, it was quiet and everything I didn't do.
Even that was not in my thought that yes so much
It's quiet here now you know like that it
Was like living a dream for
Because I came from a big family. i have
Four siblings and me, the children always love me very much.
Liked it. And for me dreaming of my life
i was very
Romantic in the Sense That I Want a House
And a husband and children and you know all
That. That Was Part a Big Part of My
Dream. So when I went there also I came here
Living my dream. I Was Not Missing
Anything in my life. yes, sometimes
Used to Miss My Art. because he wants
Be it dance or acting, art came
Used to Miss Some Times But I Was Living
A Dream I Treally Enjoyed My Time With My
Kids' uninterrupted time means no one in between.
No problem or someone is commenting or
Nothing like that, came in complete privacy
Was having my lovely lovely
Dream Coming True Right in Front of Me
there
There is a quote in which I believe a lot
I am.
The three most precious things in life
It happens, that earning happens. a fit body,
A lustful mind and a houseful of love.
we
a health
peace of mind
Yes.
And a loving home. In Naval Ravikant also
Say.
And I Think These Are the Three Most
Important things in life. butt please
Agree and Disagree Too.
I agree with you. I agree with you.
Because when you are fit in your body you
Are Strong to Take on Life's Challenges.
You fit in your mind again you're strong
To Take on a Child You Know the Challenges That
Life gives out to you whatever happens to you
The one who challenges you in life is you
him absolutely
Can do it strongly. And of course if
There's love around you and what should you know?
So the three things are the most important thing for
m.
It takes a lot of hard work for all three.
All three require hard work.
What does the hard work look like for Housefull of Love?
Housefull of Love Keep That You Know Because
Saying that oh it's loving and all this but her
For you have to sometimes make
Sacrifices to Keep It to Keep That Love
Going. If you blame someone for everything
They will take it out and say that it didn't happen.
If it doesn't happen then it won't happen.
Could. It Will Always Be a Challenge You Know
But a little you have to be a little
Giving
To Create That Love and Everything You Know
Ma'am you are so full of love it's very
Weird to see you as Mrs. Deshpande and
It's also something we uploaded
but it's strange
Or But I Guess That's the Skill of an Actor
or mean as an actor
You Should Be Able to Play Any Part I Feel
Feel and the more challenging the part, the more
The more you go beyond the image you have, the better
because
Then That's One Step Ahead Like I Said. now
I don't know whether people will like it or not.
But I think I've put in my best work. and
Whatever character we had, we fulfilled it.
Has been put on the screen. And the rest is up to
The People Now to Like It. And Not Like It.
This darkness, where are you from?
Do you channelize? From observation of life?
Yes. Absolutely.
Like, do do do do do do do do have to go
Through the Darkness Yourself.
No, You Don't Have to Go Through Anything
Yourself. That's why it is called acting.
Like someone said, tell me which one?
Was it an incident? So he said that he who is not
This is how it has been, so say try acting. thats
What you suppose to do. but it comes
From your heart. because you observed
Has been done. You meet people. you
Let's listen to stories. you read stories
Are. You are real life stories. that
Let's see. And from all this you always
Absorbing. You're always absorbing. u
Always Learning. you always
Like you're like a sponge. you know you
Always absorb. and that which you
Learned from life. so many things
Have seen. when you roll like this
That's all you use to get into the
Roll. You Know All Your Observations You Keep
In Your Head and Then You Kind of Create
That character. we
And of course a director is always there
To help you. Those who are directors also
Have some ideas about what this character should be like
Is. So these two have to be merged.
things and then you create a character
Can in the movie and series.
I Can't Ever Imagine You Unstable in Anyway
Capacity. Meaning from this interaction neither your
Stability will remain with me. in the long
Term.
Yes, absolutely. Is this an outcome of time
Or Kathak or or what's happening? like and do
You ever get?
Everything I thought about when I danced
It's a very spiritual thing for me. So
For my mind, body and soul it was a
Very balancing thing for me.
you dance
Are you telling about them or Kathak?
Dance in General.
All dance.
Not just Kathak.
Ok.
All dance. And in Kathak there are so many off course
There are all different aspects. in that we
Also do bhajans. we the people
Whatever verses are there, they also do that. on that
Also dance. there is a pause dance
In. There is a rhythm. whether he is drunk or
Be it fast or delayed, be it slow. you know,
So you're playing with all that. you are
Playing With All Those Elements When You Are
dancing? Would you say that dola re dola is one
Of your best ever dance performances?
I think Dola Re Dola is one of the best
Songs sh period.
OK but for example something iconic like
What's going on inside your mind?
When We're Shooting for It.
When you're dancing at that level.
Yes, it means it is going on. this is perfection
Towards. Your race is always there. so you this
Did I do it or not? Was it perfect or not?
Whether we left on time or not
You are not thinking about anything else at the time.
Only then and about the song that its words
What is its meaning and the timing?
Between the Two Characters I and As You Know
How and when to go out, when will that trolley turn?
When to come inside and when to sit and do the movement
When are you just thinking of all that?
For him you have to be present you have to
Be late in the present you are right there
You Can't Your Mind Can't Waver
But its preparation started from age three.
Right Years of Doing That Getting a Body
mind expression
I feel that you as a soul were born to be
Madhuri Dixit Now That I'm Getting To
no more of you
ok
I would like to ask you that according to you
What are your top three career highlights?
Top three career highlights I would say
First of all, it is not acid, first of all it is because of innocence.
That Got Me In Films The Second Will Be
acid end
Third would be I think receiving the Padmashree
Because that validates not only you
Art But the Way You've Led Your Life is All
The whole essence of life is that which you have.
get award for that
And More Than Anything Else I Would Say The Love
off my fans
Which Has Never Wayward
My ups are my downs always
Always supported me I think that's the
craziest thing
What's the craziest thing a fan has done?
for you
First of all it means only then those people letters with blood
He used to write such letters with his own blood.
were
What did you think after seeing the blood letters?
Oh It Was Just Frightening Scary
Because someone goes to such an extent that it's
Scary
Either Like Beautiful Things Like
Once we shoot in Lucknow
So a man came there and said, I am yours.
I am a big fan ma'am, don't you know?
So I said ok you will be there then he said
No, you will have to see it, so this is how he said it.
When he took off the hat, he saw Madhuri in full hair.
Full here Like you could see the name written
these hair
Should have done this today instead of being hungry anyway
go
say say say say
A lot of different ways like there's a man
In a North India, it is Sardarji who
They do so much in my name there
There is so much social work there which is
Amazing
And he celebrates my birthday every year
are
It's Amazing the Kind of Work
I get this disease and its virtue because of this.
He's doing it in my name you know it
It's Amazing What People Do
We're Talking About Career Success Fan Love
etc ok i zoom out to a 2025
From lens to career success, fan love etc.
would like to talk about let's for
Take the example of the film industry
I have friends from the film industry
Who have also seen a lot of success and this
It's not just the film industry, this is all
off media
ok
ok ok? Everyone thinks they have
Got less than what they deserve. to everyone
Looks like someone else is doing more. every
Somebody Feels They Haven't Reached
Potential. And then when I'm a legend like you
I meet you, you all say that
No, luck plays a big role.
Virtue plays a very big role. to
Many things out of your control. so as a
Podcast Host I Have the Luxury of Being
Exposed to these perspectives.
Right? So I felt that I was quite stable.
I am. But It's Right to Just Work Hard
And Keep Moving Forward And Then Wait For
Destiny to happen or what
If You're Working Hard You're Not Waiting For
Destiny To Happen If You Sing At Home And
Not doing anything saying that I like that
If someone does this, he does that, he should get something.
that
Is not or that is wrong. you work hard
Will have to do. You will have to put
Yourself Out There You Know Put Yourself In
The Grind Knows the Grind and Just Keeps Up
You will get working opportunities as well.
You will get opportunities also
Believe it, everyone I'm talking about
is hardworking and very hardworking de r
Picking Out on How Much Hard Work They Can
Give in the world I'm talking about
OK And Still They Don't Get Success
And this again we're not
I Mean Luck Is Something You Know And Then When
Something Like That Happens Then You Talk About
Luck you know that you have done everything and also worked hard.
But if you are not getting success then
There is another issue somewhere.
put to fate
Have you ever read your own astrology chart?
what is it? no ever
not consciously
No, I have never believed like this.
But I've Had an Experience With Someone
Who was a face reader? That's how I came.
Girl it was not my choice I was a
The kids came just then and mom called them.
Had taken it just like that because he had come to the building
If I go to someone's house then it's okay.
He read my face and told me you
What are you doing? I said I am science.
I want to become a science student
If I want then you don't have to say arts.
I want to be known because you are doing your arts.
I will have very many names meaning you are very big
She said she could become a star but
We Just Took It With a Pinch of Salt
You Know and We Never Really Thought About It Ever
again
When Did You Start Thinking About It
again
Yeh To Jab Tezaab Aayi But Jab Aayi Became A Star
Then I started thinking, yes, he had come.
Do you remember what Pandit ji said?
Did we ever meet that Panditji after that?
Never knew where he was, where he came from
Didn't know anything.
Was it even a real person?
Know it was because a lot of people
Had seen them.
A lot of people saw it and came to sleep
No that it was a real person.
Okay okay. something strange like this
There have been experiences in your life.
Like I Feel Dreams Have a Lot of You
Nothing in your life. Because there is a lot of
things you
Process in your dreams and
Sometimes this is how the drum of something ends
I woke up and the first topic that came up was home.
That's what I was about in Which I Had Drums
Of you know so I am dumbfounded by such snakes
Bite happened again we are trying to find
Something about how to cure this
Do that, do that, this is how the dream came and when I
When I woke up, my brother called me on WhatsApp.
When I Woke Up I Saw That
They Are Creating Something from Camel Tears
For snake bites. That was the first thing
I saw on my phone when I woke up
So Things Like That I Mean Nothing It Might
B Coincidence and Whatever But
But they say when you sleep they lot
Of things your mind kind of
Solves. You Know in Your Own Where Dreams
whatever
About Life and You Know Your Own Chemistry.
I have not liked the subject of this dream very much.
Explored through the show. a neurocyte
When I talked to him he said basically your
There is confusion in the mind all day long. that
Bhurji gets processed. and a summary
Comes out. So actually this conscious mind
By taking you out of your subconscious
Giving an answer.
But also talked to many spiritualists
Have curry.
He said that yes it is true that this
Bhurji is processed. butt to an extent when
You see some divine entity in your dream
In or you see animals. often
that
Dreams also have a spiritual meaning
Or you are being given a blessing. and
I felt that people like you who have so much
Got so much fame, so much love
Found in personal life also.
Obviously you have many blessings
Around. So I Won't Be Surprised If It's Really
Angels in your dreams, your childhood
I came to you and blessed you. I
feel
I don't know.
I think that's too deep.
I really don't know. I don't know. i think i
M blessed. And every day I feel gratitude
I say that I am blessed. and there someone
Watching over me. I feel like there
There is a power above you. I don't know what form
It is. But It's Something There and I. I
Am Always Grateful for That Power. meaning ma'am
Nowadays there is no manifestation law on algorithms.
There is a lot of talk about off attraction.
But as far as I understand these things
I have learned that your outer world
He remains one of your inner world.
It is just a reflection.
Yes
If you are sorted from within, full of love,
Be happy, be positive, have all those things
Looks like.
And you're a great example of exactly
That.
we
I'm sure even before your success you're in
Much more positive than. or i was there
Positive but I was a very shy person
And I Still I Ham to a Sudden Accent or
I'm not that outgoing I'm not that outgoing
As soon as we meet everyone is talking about everything
Life is not like this. I'm very guarded
May be because of who I am in the profession I
m and i wa to do
I used to be very in school but stage
Don't know what would have happened. i was like
The Most Comfortable on Stage, You Know, But
In this life I used to be very quiet.
I Was a Very Quiet Child. but as soon as
Go on stage, I used to become a lion, so I came
Used to own the stage literally like that.
Butt or I think positivity. I am very
I believe in it. because people say
Why is your smile so nice? Why is it like this? Why is that? I say that
I'm Because Whenever I Smile at Someone
Really Mean It. I really liked the meeting
You You Know That's Why I Smiled I
Like Meeting Him When I Walked In He Was
Standing at the door I say hello how are you
you know because i like it me me me
When people like me I feel good
your smile comes from the heart and reaches the eyes
That's why it seems real you know because of you
Really Mean It So Positivity Is Variant You
no in life
And someone's goodness or badness can be seen on camera.
goes
we
i i i feel that
i don't know
no you think
I Don't If I Agree With That Or Not
wow people can wear masks
can happen
Wow that's experience speaking
It doesn't mean that you have to be a good actor.
To become a good person you have to be
It's not like that you can be a good
actor you are an actor
I feel that I am the one who is the top 1%.
I can't think of the magic in performance
You and Shahrukh Khan in that category
Hmm hmm.
That's What I You Guys Are Actually On The
Also full on.
Shahrukh is fabulous. Really a nice person. I
Work with them in so many films.
charisma
That Charm and Very Down to Earth Very
Very protective about the women. you know when
We also used to shoot. use to make
Sure you are sitting in the car. you ok you are
Going home. You Know All That. so very
Charming very nice person. Absolutely.
The heart is mad, what are the memories?
My heart is crazy, it's very good
There are memories. Like I Was Working With Yash
G for the first time. my heart is crazy
I. I have met him many times
But had never worked together before.
Was doing it for the first time. so his instructions
The way of giving was different. just oh you there
If you go, I mean, will you use it like this?
To walk off. What did you say like that? I didn't understand. What was his? What was his?
instruction? He is like nothing. Just
Enjoy yourself. He Said That Just Be In It
Free and nice. only after translating
Used to tell me. oh ok ok than we used to
Do the scene and everything. so when i did
Gajagamini with Hussain Ji I Got a Chance To
Return that favor to him. because hussain
Sir was also like this. talk in short hand
Used to do. Come and come with this camera, come like this
After doing so, they would leave. So what did you say? what
What did you say? Means nothing. just have
Fun.
Pick up your camera and laugh like this
Tell me like this. That's it. That's all
Words. So we had we had so much fun on that
Movie. It was so nice.
All the Scenes You Know Everything It Was
Amazing.
If Someone Knows Love and Visual Motion
Isn't it? The heart is crazy. Take a look.
That's what came. And even the three
Leads, everyone acted great. And amazing.
Magical everything, everything.
magical?
All all.
Everything About That Movie People Love.
I Don't Know If You Did Yash Chopra
I have seen the documentary but it is amazing.
There is a documentary about his art.
A lot of things have been said in. I felt that
Again for Genjis Genjis are discovering this
Older Cinema at This Point. I felt that
See the entire filmography of Yash Chopra
Should have been directed by him himself. and
You Know the Fantastic Thing About Him Is
Even if Joe is the main character in each of his films.
They Are Leading But Women Always Head
Important Roles in the Way Presented
Women Amazing As Elegant You Know
Very romantic maybe elegance four grace
And Power There We Women Have We Women Always
Var Amvard in the Movies
Because because he valued his wife and
Mom. And If He Had a Sister.
Absolutely he had that way he looked at
Who Women Was That Way.
A Same Thing with Shahrukh Khan. Same Thing Yashu
And It's a Very Important Man's Lesson
While Growing Up and You Take Time Too
Learn it.
But When That Happens, There's a Switch
That Happens In. The Sad Thing Is Many Men
Get Through Life Without Learning That Lesson.
And they also don't get to experience the
Luxuries of life. Do You Have a Venus Energy?
no
say if you if you basically if you
Treat Your Partner Mom Sister All the Women
In your life like royalty and then
Extend That to All Women Everywhere
Venus Energy Visits Your Life More Than You Should Do
It's for Venus Energy Venus Energy Meaning
luxuries etc butt
You Know I'm I'm a Torian
rule by venus
OK Taureans and Geminis are very good
friends
How do you feel about this podcast?
It feels great, I am having fun. its
It's Way Different Because It's Not About This
What's happening? What is happening? its
About You Know Life About Very Different
Things. I've never talked about this
Things.
I just wanted to meet you. I have done very minimal
Had planned. I just heard that song
Saw the episode with Aggarwal.
This is my genuine question for you. like
Let me take a little tangent which I have
To tell you again.
Like I'm Not Able to Put It In
Words but I am very grateful today
For. A And last night I don't know. I can't
Believe I'm telling you this. but like last night
A little anxiety while I was sleeping
Feels like before a big day and I
Have done 30 episodes. 30 episodes. so I came
Shouldn't feel anxious at this stage. so my
felt anxiety and then that anxiety
Felt gratitude for. whatever happened
Have been in life lately and I've got a
Opportunity Again from the World. so i
I wasn't even thinking about today's episode.
In. thinking about the past few weeks last night
Felt and I just felt very peak gratitude
Felt. So wanted to just tell you that
Just I'm very grateful for you
Presence. Nothing else.
Or. You Know, Like I Was Telling Someone. I
Said I Still Feel Nervous When I Go On
Stage When I'm Performing or Whatever
I am doing it. so there is a nervous feeling
I know a you on their age. so he
Said it's a good thing it's a good thing you
Should be nervous because that's when you know you
Perform Your Best When You're a Little Nervous
That energy that comes from nervousness
That's That's an Amazing Energy to Have
Because It Helps You Take That Only Forward
From where you are
or the same 100%
100%
Because You Know You're Going to Put Pressure On
Yourself to Make it the Best
But this is a very important life lesson because I
Remember from the beginning of any career
First, people scare you about your career.
The world is very dangerous. This is him. the truth
Is You Just Give Up 100% Keep Improving.
You'll be fine.
or or
Like at this stage of life what you are
Improving or What Are You Learning? like
What's up generally? like how is your life
Is it?
Life is great. The children have grown up. u
No one is in college. The Other One Is Working
Already.
So only this is working with Apple. my am great
Life here with my husband or getting the
Kind of Roles That I Want to Do or
There's a Certain Kind of
Balance in life give certain kind of work in
In this life and I'm having the best time
you know
Best Face Best Face of Life
Yes absolutely and I say like
Different faces come in everyone's life and
Every phase is like a new canvas. you know
Treat it like a new canvas. every phase in
Your life. And Then You Can Put Whatever
The Colors You Want on It and You Know Make It Yours
On.
Are you in touch with some of your childhood
Friends?
Yes.
How are their lives now?
They are having good lives. late means mine
My best friend's daughter has grown up.
She is working. She Got Married. and
They Are They Are Comfortable And You Know
Whatever they're doing
Do You Notice Anyone You Grow Up With
Having a Bit of a Rough Time Right Now
Life and What Has Been Your Advice to Them
Fortunately There's No One I Know Who Is
Having a Rough Time But I Would Say That Look At
It's like this too shall pass you know this too time
will come out and at that time its variant to
Keep Your Work to Keep Your Wits Around You.
you have to be patient
and live everyday
You know don't think ahead that this will happen now
If this happens then this will happen because of you
Yourself When You Do That. so live everyday
And try to make the right choices and
Try to do your best. of every bad time
Good times and bad times are bound to come later.
Won't last that long. you know if you
approach it and
meaning head on you know
If I see a question I ask
Like that's how my whole career
Has Been Built It's Not Going to Be a
Weird Question Right Don't Worry Know This
I noticed that whenever a personality
I talk to many of them now
Understand What a Podcast Is But Everyone
Comes In Podcast Expecting A
Journalistic interview where the headlines
for
Because We're Used to That No Question
Answers Like That Like Questions About Yourself
career your life
or
And that's the same format
or
Remains in mind whenever you come. Yah. I
Also think it's the exact reason why
Journalistic Interviews Don't Get
Traction Any More.
hm
Because each element sitting in front
Those questions remain of disrespect
In. You Know I Can Ask So Many
More sharp questions to all my guests. butt eye
Don't Get Out of the Fact That's Where I Am
Dying I Don't Want Them to Hold That
Against me. Eye on my death bed. you know,
And I feel the same, the negative atmosphere increases every now and then
Is it someone's? hmm
When you throw disrespect on people
right right
I You Know Everybody's Work Hard to Be Where
give r
And Everybody Has Been Through a Lot in Their Own
Lives They Don't Need That
I usually ask questions about myself
People The Things I Think Can Heal the World
We feel that this is the age of 50's and 60's
bracket happens and i see my mom also
Going through the things I see my aunt
aunty
we
Some mental health is up and down.
Women's partly because of menopause
Partly because of life emptiness
There is a thing called syndrome whereness
Because your kids are no lager there. so you
Feel like a vacuum in your life.
So all these things in your age group
What kind of things do women talk about and how do women do?
Help each other? And how we can help each other
Another through the screen. How can we help the
Women watching this? Well I'll Say That To You
No I know that when there are children at home
Your life revolves around children.
Is. Everything is orbiting around them and
as soon as they leave as soon as they leave
Cook let fly the nest basically let
They're doing their own thing go to college
Are. so many things in college they
Have to do. so I don't get time
Sometimes texting or picking up the phone Mom Phone
Is doing. Is calling. can i call you
All these letters suddenly give a feeling of vacuum.
Around them they feel like oh my god
I was running around so much for this thing.
The person around whom my entire life was now
suddenly
It's Gonna You Know Now She's On Her Own
Course Husband Is There I'm Not Talking
About That But I'm Saying Personally Joe
How much emotion is wasted in our children
So I think it's variant to
Take Up Something That You Love at That Point
Something That You're Passionate About And
Start Doing That It Could Be
Stupidest thing yes I have to go to that temple
I have to do something, go over there and do something.
If you want to go then start it you like
To Walk Start Walking You Like To Knit And
You Like Some Sort of Art Start Doing
It You Know Start Occupying Your Time End
Start Doing Something That You've Loved All About
Your Life But Not Got Actually N
Opportunity to Do It Because You Had Others
Things to Do Right You Have Lots
There were other things. you didn't get that chance
That you can do that. Take Does Hobbies End
Start doing them. you know invest
Yourself in Dose. so what happens is that
You are doing something that interests you. so
This is what happens to your children, isn't it?
He hasn't called yet. hey i three
Sent messages, haven't received a reply yet. one
Which is always there. You Have to Get Over
That. Because he is also busy in his college.
They always don't get time to call you. so
Start Doing That Start Doing Something
That You're Passionate About and Are and Want to
Take Up and Start Learning Something. you know
So start building your own life.
You know and I feel I'm in that position of
Child of a Mamu Just in Her 60s Right Now.
Hmm.
A I Feel That I'm Not Talking For Just
Myself but not many in my entire generation
All have mental health problems. a lot
There is anxiety. means crazy anxiety
Is. And there were a lot of ups and downs
are in everyone's mind. so in the middle
Of all that bhurji sometimes you don't own it
Call it loneliness, call it solitude. in that
You get lost. But You Still Love Your Mom
And your dad. So I Feel Too Many People Are
Are Navigating That Right Now It's Way
tricky times even
It's Tricky for the Kids Also and Its
Tricky for the Parents Also Because
Children are not visible in front.
College villages go here and there like this now
There are very few who can do college while staying at home.
There are many going out of station to
Some other place to for the education to come
There are no children, no children are visible
and
Because they are so busy they also reply something
If you are not doing it then that too in your world.
Is. Where they are relying on there
Friends for the support and the right friends
All these things also happen.
But this means everybody has to go through.
Dec. And I Think That's When the Children
Also learn. And there is one more thing that you
The amount of learning that has been given to the children. you all
Have taught. Values that came late
Should be given to our children. I have given
Are. Respect Everybody, Do This, Do That
Right thing in any situation.
You know, you teach them everything very well.
Are. So Trust Them That Once They Are There
Will put those learned things into use. u
No, trust them a little. you know a little
Will be up and down. Some things will go up and down.
Because they are also discovering life. for the
First time alone with myself
If you have started life then maybe it is wrong
Decisions can also be taken. but you support
Do this to your children and make sure that
Go Through These Rough Times and Come Back and One
You can bring stability in their life.
Please correct me from wrong. Ok? this
I have to go. like a romantic
If there is no communication in the relationship
Skills are great and if you love your own heart
You are able to communicate the things that one
There is skill. And Something You Can Improve
Over time. I felt the same way that mom and
Communicate well with dad too
There is a skill.
Or its variants.
Right?
But this communication line has been there since childhood.
B Open.
From both sides.
It has to be open from both sides. hmm
because
Cannot happen immediately. It Takes Time. it
Can't happen all of a sudden.
I also feel that when you turn 30
Na you kind of have to take the role of a
Parent in Some Capacities and Just Be More
Understanding these situations.
Yes. Like I Always Say That Our Generation Is A
Sandwich Generation. Because we are our parents
Are also taking care of their children
Are taking care of you also. So we're taking
Care of both sides. Because your parents
Also become like kids and your children too
They are children, but they are parents.
Those kids also get typed by you know
Because they are also getting older they have there
They set their own ways.
In. So they also do not want to change.
You Know, So, You Have to Take Care of Them and
You to take care of your kids. So, I
Called Them The Sandwich Ah, Generation.
Almost the challenge of life at that stage.
You like you like you like use. or butt eye
Mean what's life without challenges yes we
There must be challenges and how do you handle them?
That's the most interesting thing to me
It's All About Attitude Towards It
Navigating With Grace
yes
Your perspective on that challenge
Or You Have To Or Navigating It With Grace
You put it very very very nicely because
You have to give a lot of things to you
A lot has to be given from both sides.
Like Your Parents You Have to Give a Lot
Because you got a lot from them. how much do you need
Given by my parents. so u
Have to give on this side and on this side
Because they are your responsibility. so you
Are giving on this side. so one it's it's
Very hard. It's a very hard time but I
Think That's Our Generation I Think We Are
We are having a lot of fun. You Know We Have
Been through a lot. A We Came From Nothing.
We have achieved all with our lives. and
So We Are We Are Warriors Basically
or
And we see it through we see everything
through you know
About Pre Liberalization India
You are speaking. 80 70 60 It was a very different time.
At Your Stage of Life This Parent Child
What is a relationship? What does it feel
Like to see your parents? sorry to put it
That Way But Like I'm Asking For
Perspective for my generation also because
Or Or Because I Think Sometimes It's Way
Sad and Sweets
Like to See Someone Lose Their Faculties or
His mind which was so sharp was now
No but they start repeating things you
no more
And then you're like oh my god I mean so much
She was so intelligent and he was so
Intelligent and Today You Know She Can't
Remember where he ate and what he ate in the afternoon.
What should I do in the morning to start losing weight?
Kind of Things and You Just Have to
Remind Them You Have to Be Patient Too
Patience is needed, a lot of patience is needed and I
Think That's the Most
like
sad thing you know to see yours
Parents Like Because You Always Have
Idealize them for being like the
Smartest For Being This For Doing
Everything For And Today You See Them Not
Having That Kind of Faculty Anymore
It's very hard to see yours
parents
Does it change your perspective on yourself?
Life Seeing That
Well I Mean When You See Your Parents And
You See Them and You Think of Your Motility
Obviously You Know You Think About That Too
Looks like my my mom is going through this.
Will I Be Going Through This Well? so this
Everything is off course you think about it.
So that's why I ask people
Do they think about their death?
no? I think it's a life question.
Don't you think about yourself?
Yes very much.
too much. In an Almost in a Romantic
Way But Not in a Morbid Way.
Hmm.
It does not mean that there is love for death. butt
i think athletic
If you really study the Indian culture
Scripture It Says That Just Be Peaceful About
Death and Work Towards Being Peaceful. one
Mank came on the show. he is very right
Somewhere that stayed with me. He said that
Death is the exam and life is yours
Preparation time. So that's a very nice
The Peaceful Way of Looking at Death. butt
I spoke to an actor
Roughly Like You Know 30 Years Older Than Me
25 30 years old with me and them only
Didn't have to talk about it and then on
That Podcast We Debated for 20 Minutes But
I Guess Everyone Has Their Own Pace Off
Understanding This Problem But This Too
The important thing is to understand mortality.
Would love to hear your opinion on it like this
If You Think I'm Just Thinking Too
debate thats fine
No I Think It's an Eventuality Everybody
Has to Go Through It Right and I Don't Think
About It So Much You Know It Has to Happen
Will Happen It Will Happen Wherever It Has To
Happen and That's Something Beyond Yours
Control You Can't Control That You Have
First of all no idea you have
No Power Over It Right? you control that
Can't. You don't even have power over him
Is. It's It Will Happen When It Has To
Happen. So why think so much about it?
we
you know
Would you ever use mortality and death as a
Source to Learn Darkness for Something Like
Mrs. Desh Pandey to Channelize Do's Emotions
There?
What do you mean by that?
We talked about Mrs. Desh Pandey's Darkness
I spoke.
What do you think is dark in the world?
I Think Badness in a Person
evil
evil you know
And your job is to stay away from it.
Protect Yourself and Stay Away From.
Not for Desh Pandey.
There has to be channelization. I'm a little scared
Looks like.
Why?
Why are you afraid?
your energy
Have you ever seen it? someone's
What has he seen?
Have you seen the light go out from someone's eyes?
ever seen that
How does man struggle in despair?
in? Have you ever seen it?
No.
When he takes his last breath, in his eyes
What is expression? have you ever seen
what is it?
No.
Have you thought about it?
No.
I am thinking that Madhuri Dixit
Where did she go?
You suddenly went into this topic of death.
I said, Oh God, where are you taking this?
are in conversation
That's Kilo Back
Kind of Scared Right
No, it was Desh Pandey who was saying Miz Desh.
Pandey What I Think But She Is Not All
Evil I Can Tell You That
Her history or the way she
Thinks Isn't Completely Evil She Is
Not an evil person
take out
We It's Layered It's Much Layered It's All
Experiences Every Life Experiences
Whatever She's Gone Through and
i think
Their loveliness, their meaning inside, so much
There is noise but on top of that she is very nice
Doobs is also a little It's Not Trustworthy
She's She's Working With The Police But You Can
Never trust everyone because he has something of his own
Thoughts going on are their own and they
Has her own angle on everything.
So, even when the police is working with her,
They're doing it because they're desperate
Something bad is happening and they need her
No, it's because of him, otherwise
You can never tell what she's going
To Do When and What She Can She Is
Capable of a lot more.
I feel like you enjoy yourself a lot.
playing this
you are
Because You Know It's Always Been Like a Goodie
Goodie So Sweet You Know Her Kind Of
Characters That Have Played So Far and I
Thought this has so much ah in her like it's n
Onion You Know You Peel and You Peel Layers and
You peel layers and
It's very well written and Nagesh of
Of course I am a fantastic director
Working with him for the first time and
It was great working with him
Because she is very very very
True to the script. anywhere like this
It is not. I know and I have seen them
films he remains very focused on the
Characters. they don't let him move
You don't know the character at all. And we needed
That's precision for this script. and thats
Why I Said Yes Because Applause Is Also
Producing It V. They are also very good
Producers. Nagesh is a fantastic
The director and the script are so different
That I Needed This Kind of People to Back It
You Know When I'm There in the film. So,
So Lettuce C. Let's C.
I hope someone makes a reel where
Mrs. Desh Pandey
That we keep one video and in the other we
Who are they?
Same person. Range. That should be that should be the
Side. For An Actor It's It's Fun To
Play Different Characters Because
What You Have to Know to Feel Versatile
you know
feel versatile
Or I Feel Versatile That You Can't Play the Same
Characters Again and Again and Again You Know You
You Have to Try Different Things
And it's like it's like how you go for a
Buffett and You're Trying Different Things
Its taste is like this, his is like that, so like that
There are characters. there is someone like that
character, some are like that, some are sweet, some
It is Katta. you know
Who are you during Hum Aapke Hain Koun days?
Who was there?
Like I was the person behind Madhuri
Dixit?
I Was Just Playing Myself I Guess In That
In that role. It's that Nisha was very
Close to who I am. That person is very
Close to who I am. I love families. i love
Bringing People Together You Know And
I Love Peace in a Family You Know I'm the Peace
Maker Kind of in a Family. so i am
That character.
When you and Salman Khan meet.
About who is your hair?
do you talk?
Firstly, we don't meet that much. and when
When we meet, we don't talk about the movies.
We talk about how are you doing? What is happening? You know another thing. no nostalgia
about
Nostalgia means when we meet maybe show
If he got salary etc he would have got it done.
there is nostalgia
They Want to Do That Slingshot Things They Want
To Do All That So They Get Greedy All the Show
We are people, we are something or the other, we are yours.
Which elements are included in it?
No, the memories of that set are still fresh.
Oh or I Mean It Was So Much Fun Being on That
Set because we're really like a family
And when I remember it was the last day and
he he
Meaning, before announcing the packup, he
The song plays and I get separated from you and go away.
It was for a moment that we all started crying, everybody.
Was crying on the sets
Because Really We Had Become Like a Family
Because 12 12 Jan together 10-10 15 days we
People lived together. So, We Had Become Like
You Know Attached to Each Other and
We Had Become Caring About Each Other. We Var
Like interested in what's happening in each
Others' Lives and Everything. so when we parted
So we knew which set now
Don't know when we will meet. So We All Were
Like very very sad.
Was young Salman Khan a scoundrel on set?
He was so naughty you can't say in negative
Way but in a way sweet way cute
Or cute they always mean them everyday
Used to get scolded by Suraj Bajatia Salman
Brother please pay attention you know and scold me
Meaning, what could be the scolding of Suraj Bajatia?
He used to say very sweetly to her that
Salman Bhai I will get angry right now
Please concentrate properly on what you
Are doing so but yes but that added to the hole
You Know Four Off Hum Aapke Hain Koun? their
That cute mischievousness is visible even in acting.
Is.
yes
Love face.
I think because of that cute bully
Whole career has gone ahead.
Or Group That's What People Help Him Dust
Help him.
hmm
And that's why Chulbul Pandey became so popular one
Of his characters. It's like a Chulbul.
Hmm well another very iconic movie.
It's a Movie You've Done. I think it's
Called, we are yours sir.
We are yours sir. Yes.
Where there is Shahrukh Khan, Salman Khan, Madhuri
Dixit
Too iconic. And Salman Khan, Shahrukh Khan's
A fight takes place. That scene went very viral
On algorithms.
oh ya i mean it's a very cute
Script. The script was also very cute and
Off course casting is also perfect
He was casted. So, it was it was
A very cute. And the director is also very good
Were his. Was the director of South. hmm
And there are so many ad libs that even Shahrukh
And Salman has done amazing in that movie.
There was the phase of life where you were in the
US very away from Mumbai.
or
How was your life then?
Amazing
Peaceful.
Peaceful Amazing. I had my kids and
I was spending every moment with them.
Living my dream basically. Looking After
Give them. Taking Them to the Park Playing With
They are sitting on the swing. You Know All Do's Kind
Of things. So it was a lot of fun.
How Came Doctor and You Decided to Come Back
At some point?
Well a lot of things happened. my parents
Var with me. They are living with me and my all
My siblings are living there. They Are All
In the US. Everyone is there. even rams
Family. His family is also there. so
My Parents Getting Older They Wanted To
Come back you know to India. but all my
Career and my life they were with me always
With me. so i didn't want them
To leave you alone here because there
There is not much family around in Mumbai. so that
There was one thing. Secondly my work was here. so
I was coming here after work. then i used
To go back. That was becoming very difficult
Because there is a lot of distance between US and here.
On. And Then Ram Was Also Feeling That You
No Jab I Think You've Done a Podcast With
Him also to this effect that whenever
Patients come in a dying state when
Come to them because they have to be
Operated on, something has gone wrong with them
He has to operate on them He says why can't
i catch them earlier on
Meaning before all this happens if I am a patient
If I could advise I think that would be
A Better Thing Than Them Getting Into
Trouble And Then Coming To Me To Get
Operated. So only wanted to develop something in
technology using technology smart
Services and
AI and everything and create a system
To Make People Healthy You Know
Look After Their Wellness and So That's What
He wanted to do. So we thought I might
It's a Calling Where You Know Everything Is
Coming Together And May Be If We Move To
India Than We Can Know Start
My work is here to pay and also
Wanted a Change and So I Thought It Was a
Great then point for me to move here for
All of us to move here together
you missed india
Yes of course I missed India there because
All my friends here storm all my
Friends Were Here
Some of My Family Here and So Yes I Used
to miss india
I missed food
Missed to eat or to try to make
Stuff would have cooked there too
I was etc.
Cook I have an okay Cook I'm not bad but
You Know I Started Very Late When I Came
Was Working I Never Got a Chance to Get In
The Kitchen I Think Mostly I Cook
learned about marriage after my marriage
we
From my husband
So you are the best, she is a better cook than me.
I Can Make a Good Kang Pav Chicken and I Can
i can make a good
If you say Indian then Sabudana Khichdi is good.
And I can make Poha they are saying wow
From there Sabudana Khichdi and I can make
Different Things I Can Make SabjiVabji
It's a Few Things That My Mom Taught Me
can make dose
What is your favorite dish? my favorite dish
If I speak Maharashtrian then I will give me Modak
I really like Modak and I from Mam Ukri.
Learn to Make It Also So I Am Myself
Can Make My Whole Modak Sunny
Coconut Jaggery
Yes Coconut Jaggery Rice
ghee on top
I mean I think when Ganpati ji comes
That's the best time in my life because
Everyday we eat modak them
Ganesh Chaturthi Taste Like Modak
Ganesh yes yes
right
was his favorite
Your favorite dish is modak and savory dishes.
in
The savory dish came like Sabudana Khichdi.
love it
add peanuts
put peanuts in it
ok
It's amazing
That's the ultimate comfort food
Ultimate and Varan Bhat I Love Varan Bhat Varanbhat
Sunshine and Little Bit of Lemon
There is no childhood here
Comfort
Yes this childhood vibe am right
If I'm Sick If I'm Not Feeling Well
That's my go to or India
Those who are not from Maharashtra
Explain to them about Varan Bhaat that it happens
What is it?
Nothing except rice. There are lentils, there are moong lentils.
And there are vegetables. vegetable is saying rice
Is. And nothing is put in it. Masala
No, nothing, nothing. We Just Boil
It's Basically Cook It and a Little Over Rice
ghee
A little salt and lemon.
Hmm. And it's amazing.
Would That Be Your Last Meal, If You Had A
Choice?
Well I Don't Know I Don't Know When Last Meal
Meaning, we don't know where, when and what is going to happen.
But If I Know I'm Going to Like Go
give me b
Varanbhat and Modak.
Okay okay. I have new gifts planned for the
Next time.
Don't bring all this.
No. No. Let's see this. Ok. Madhavi
Dixit, thank you from the bottom of my heart
Heart. It seems that I am among many
Other kids are dancing in the rain behind you
I am and feeling good. That's a heart
The reference is crazy.
oh ya chak dhoom dhoom
Chak Dhoom Dhoom Chak Dhoom That Was Going Man.
Just thank you. This was so nice. i am so
Grateful to just have a chat with you. the
Podcast Cameras Mics Are Highly Highly
Secondary. More so for some conversation. this
Is one of them. Ah for me, I did this for
Me and all the women watching this particular
Episode. So, thank you.
Thank you.
Thank you for having me on your podcast.
Ah you represent a modern strong
Indian woman. And think you said n
Example for multiple generations.
I Would Encourage You to Do More Podcast
Generali. Because that is your internal energy
She should come out in front of the world. I
Think There's Much to Learn From and We
Just Scratch the Surface. So
Just thank you ma'am. Thank you for him.
Pleasure
Thank you so much.