How does India look like from this space?
You can see uh when the rivers run off, how they interact.
We knew it would be six more months.
When you're in space and coming home is a byproduct of this business, it's risky.
>> [music] >> How many situations do you plan for?
Hey, what if this failed?
What if that failed?
And what's the probability of this and that happening?
>> Was there any point where you heard some sound and you got scared?
>> Did you feel lonely in one of those 286 days?
>> Have you cried in space?
>> What was the most difficult part for you of the training?
>> Before you set a foot on your first flight, you saw what happened with Kalpn Chavla.
>> Did that event change anything you?
What's the health cost you pay when you come back?
>> For me, I always feel a little nauseous when I come back.
>> Do you believe there's some life out there?
>> How does space smell like?
What's the strangest thing you've seen in the space which you think is going to be hard to believe for people here?
And just last year, she was stranded in space for 9 months when a spacecraft failed.
And what does it take to build a mindset where you can be calm when everything is going against you?
>> Everybody knows you, but let's say if 0.01% people don't know you, >> okay, >> then what about your childhood you would tell them which has shaped you the person who you are today?
I didn't you know you don't realize it when you're a kid, you know, it's just it's life.
It's how it is.
>> At what point in your childhood you felt like this is a strength like m being multicultural is a strength now?
I think [snorts] that >> what do you mean by different?
I think people knew who we were then too.
>> Did you at any point feel like that was maybe a weakness or that maybe put you in a different light than other people?
Were you insecure at any point?
Like, wow, am I am I going to be able to pass this check ride?
Am I going to be able to be a pilot?
Am I going to be able to know how to do a spacew walk?
Am I going to be able to do the robotic arm?
Um, you know, like >> do you do that today?
>> What are you insecure about today?
What am I going to do in the next steps of my life?
Uh, what am I going to do?
I wish I had known that when I was a kid.
Like that's what like you don't know what's going to happen the next moment and you're you think about what's going to happen next.
How did you know that >> this is something that you don't want to give up?
because everything every time when it didn't work out, you just pivoted.
Um, maybe it's because you have better qualifications in one area than another, although you think this is what you might want to do.
So that's why I mention this when I'm talking to kids about this this younger age pivot about trying to know what you want to do when you're 17 that seems almost ridiculous now that I look back and think about it and I ask and I find myself asking kids too like what do you want to be when you grow up?
What do you want to do when you grow up?
How the heck do they know?
So more should more should be like what do you what are you interested in?
So, it wasn't what I wanted to do when I was a kid.
Um, even when I was a pilot, I really wasn't a helicopter pilot.
So, that's why I say like when I was just mentioning like for if I'm talking to a kid like how can I expose you to something else like like um just take a look at you know the spa space program, take a look at aviation those are my backgrounds, right?
Uh so getting to know more and more people um who are in the jobs that potentially you might like is a good idea.
So like if I I had not really talked to a veterinarian beside for when I went to the vet with my dog.
when you first get to uh become an astronaut, wherever you're going to be an astronaut, if it's at, you know, an American astronaut at Johnson Space Center, European in Cologne or uh you know, Japanese in at JAXA or if you're going to be uh like um Shukla and and and do it like an Axiom flight, you're going to be tested one way or the other here or uh during the process to one become an astronaut and then two and you're on your journey to get trained to be ready to go.
So that's um sometimes intimidating, right?
That's sort of like, wow, I've never learned how to do this before.
I don't know if I know how to do robotic move the you know, operate the robotic arm or um you know, get ready for a spacew walk.
How am I going to learn how to do this?
And you know, you find the mentors, the people who have done it before.
So you know what you need to do the the background for each of those things and do the best that you can.
>> Is there any psychological screening that you go through?
Maybe you're backpacking, maybe you're doing rafting or something where you're in an uncomfortable situation.
And when somebody doesn't and their stuff's all over the place, it a little bit drives me crazy.
So does that make sense?
>> What was the most difficult part for you?
Um I think it's it's more like just when you have to do rote memorization.
I think that's what um I was sort of well I was a lot insecure about if you want to go back to that.
[laughter] >> But what happens like is it not tough when five thrusts are failing?
You're like in middle of situation where it's like chaotic.
You don't know what's going to happen.
Um, but we knew what we needed to do.
>> If you look at how he solved problems, it's like one little bite at a time.
When you have a big problem, you can't you can't deal with it, right?
Same thing happens with these big problems, right?
I think that's how you solve big problems.
But is there any mental technique that helps you keep calm during the time of chaos?
Is there some kind of breath work that you do?
Is it some kind of visualization technique?
[laughter] So, so, um, you know, you have to make that situation happen, right?
You just have to move on and and pick it the pieces up and just go with what you have.
And um you know, we knew that there would be a plan.
We have what we practice quite a bit with our mission control team about what we call like no radio procedures, Nordo procedures.
If the spacecraft didn't fly very well, then we would back away because we wouldn't want to put the state space station in danger.
>> How many situations do you plan for before you go?
Um, and that's what all that training is for.
So people sometimes say like, why do you have to train for two years for a launch of a spacecraft?
So if it's an electric vehicle, what problems do you have there?
>> Has it ever happened that you've trained for everything and still something new has happened?
So five was a big deal and and actually went against some of our flight rules about how we were going to operate the spacecraft.
So, you can understand that and you can see that when you're with your other crew mates.
Um you know, some people like some time by themselves, some people are very chatty, you know, when they get stressed out.
So, >> have you cried in space?
>> So what happens when you cry in space?
Um, same with like when you're working out, you get super sweaty because stuff just gets like too much water everywhere.
>> So, like you just start crying like is it difficult?
Is it like just stuck?
I I have to ask you a weird question like what what's the worst part about using a bathroom in space?
And I don't know why exactly but it just happens.
I'm not really sure why, but everybody everybody does.
>> How does space smell like?
um some things with garlic, you know, obviously you could smell that.
>> So that that smell, what about the sound?
Because ISS it caks and moans, right?
>> Um some areas it it also depends on what the sunlight what how our orbit is in comparison to the sun.
Have you heard any scary sound?
Like what's the scariest sound you've heard?
But >> when you were stuck like for 286 days, what's the most scariest sound you heard?
That's why I'm looking.
I'm trying to think of what [laughter] was, uh, what was scary.
So you get used to like when the furnace kicks on or something and you know [laughter] like oh yeah that's happening again.
>> But when but for the first time you must have heard at that time.
Did it scare you?
I was like uhoh what what is that?
What is that?
What is that?
So I ended calling the ground a couple times probably in the in that time frame um if I remember correctly just sort of is that normal?
Is that normal?
Like this like you froze for a moment and like you got scared?
It's called safe haven um because the space they weren't sure whether or not the debris would hit the space station.
What am I going to do?
>> Um I don't know if it I would say messed up is the right word.
So that whole time frame, you know, it's hard to have patience, right?
They say patience is a virtue and it's very true because it's sort of like when something uncontrollable is happening.
That's hard because you sort of want to go, how's it going down there?
[laughter] How's it going?
Have you have you solved the problem yet?
you know, like what what is the answer?
Do we know yet?
Um and try and it's it's hard when you're up in space.
It's like, uh during COVID when we had Zoom calls, it was really hard to really, you know, get to the bottom of some things, right?
And that's what it's sort of like all the time on the space station.
I I don't know what all the parameters are.
I listen to the the meetings, but you know how it is in Zoom calls, right?
Sometimes your your mind is doing something else when you should come back to what's going on, right?
So that's how it's going to go.
Um we knew it would be six more months.
And, you know, the aperture gets widened when you have time to do that.
So we did we just kept that whole process, right?
What we had already planned to do for the those next 10 days and we had a little extra time.
So it's how do we help?
How do I be part of the team?
How about if I transfer the food and put it in the right place?
How about if I work on the toilet because we're going through the toilet supplies faster than than we should.
So, how can I help out and just help the team?
So when when for me it was like, "Oh, if that person's working on the experiment, how about if I'm I'm your right-hand man.
I'll make the calls down to the ground and then we could work through all these things more efficiently.
I mean, and that's what we're trained to do, you know, just to help out and that makes the that that makes time go by for one thing.
>> Was there a night where you lost hope?
>> Um I I really wasn't scared because I knew that there was hundreds of people if not thousands that are working on trying to figure out one what the problem is, two can we fix it, and three how do we get back?
Not even for one like moment you felt like maybe this is it.
Uh >> but did your family ever feel like?
How do we do it?
>> Um somebody might have, you know, >> we did our best that we could do.
We actually had a medical doctor who had a lot of uh experience in this in this um setup.
So, um, like I said, that was that was the most uncomfortable when we were in those seats like I don't really want to come home like this.
I think time changes just in your head, right?
And then it accelerates when activities happen again.
Let's do the, you know, what did I want to do before I left?"
So I think it goes in in in waves depending on activity level, depending on um the projection of when you might be home.
>> [laughter] >> Did you feel Did you feel lonely in one of those 286 days?
We had that on a screen so we could watch it.
Of course, when you hang up, you're like, "Oh, you know, I wish I was down doing this."
Look, like go to the window for a second and see how beautiful it is."
Was there so you you never had the loneliest night in space?
You don't remember?
You get up in space and you go to the window and you don't know what you're going to see.
I mean, every day is like, "Oh, what's there?"
You know, it's a surprise or it's nighttime or what does lightning look like or whatever.
I was like crying like when I left because I was like, I don't know if I'll ever have this opportunity again.
>> What are the kind of dreams you get in space?
Is it different?
My father asked me the same question because he was a neuro was a neuroscientist and um you know, sometimes you dream about I think you dream about sometimes experience, right?
So it was like dreaming about where you are, what you're doing.
And then it gets a little bit crazy as all dreams do, right?
Like it was so interesting that you could dream about both of those.
And I feel like when I've come back to Earth, I've also dreamed about being in space as well, cuz I've had that experience.
I used to when I first got back quite a bit.
>> But is it different when you dream here on Earth and when you dream in the space?
Like is it the kind of dreams do you dream of falling?
Do you dream of [laughter] >> All the same.
Do you hear like different kind of sounds?
Um and the reason I guess it's it's a radiation I think that's coming and so that it's not like what your eyes are seeing.
>> So what's the health cost you pay when you come back?
So like so I mean initially when you come back you're you're not feeling very good but that that goes away pretty quick.
>> What are you feeling like the moment you land on Earth?
But if you look at all the while the dolphins are swimming or when we landed we went all the way over and then back up again.
Like, so if people don't feel good when they're on a boat, think about it that way.
For me, I always feel a little nauseous when I come back.
They and they give us tests along the way to see how we're doing, see how we're improving.
So >> So you feel you like when you come back for that month when you're trying to acclimatize, adapt to the earth again, do you feel like things are falling or like if you pick up the pen and it's just going to go like that?
Like do you get these things?
So, you need that's why somebody usually helps.
And um and usually I we don't drive for a little bit just cuz you know you're just reaction time might be a little bit slow and so somebody will take us drive us to where we need to go for the first week or >> and all your senses do do they work differently when you come back like the sound the smell?
uh I think uh enlightened to what's here on Earth.
>> You when you came back, the first thing you ate was the wedge grilled cheese sandwich.
I had that before I flew on my first flight for sure from my father and I was thinking about coming it coming back up again and I was like h this will be smooth [laughter] won't be hard to get if I throw up and when I came back to earth specifically this time uh over the last couple years my husband has started to make homemade bread and uh I couldn't think of a better thing to eat than a grilled cheese with his homemade bread was like putting those two together h so good [laughter] >> what did Did it taste like?
Did it remind you of your father?
>> You you were close to your father, right?
>> What do you miss about him the most?
I mean, he was he was one of these types of people who could really go for a walk and observe um everything around him.
Why did you say so?
Not necessarily easy, I shouldn't say it that way, but like it was obvious when things became obvious.
Whereas my for my dad, I think about somebody making the decision, trying to make the decision, what do I want to do when I grow up?
It's in competitive in the United States too, but I I would say >> uh more so here.
He just decided he was going to do it and decided like this is how I have to live.
I don't know what this journey is going to be like.
He didn't know what it was.
He was like, "What is this plasticky thing?"
>> Do you still measure your success against his?
>> And you you you don't take compliments well do you?
[laughter] Well, I feel like I I I know myself, right?
I'm just somebody who has put their head down and and done some stuff and has didn't take no for an answer.
[laughter] I don't know why you think that, you know, you're extraordinary and I'm sure like 99.99% people will feel about that.
>> No, I I'm ser but I I feel I I mean I honestly uh feel this way like if I could do these things, anybody could do these things.
You know, because you're talking about your father, I always feel like I like asking this question, so I want to go ahead and ask you, what do you wish your father would have seen in you before he left?
So I don't think he knew exactly and my mom either what I was doing.
Um, and so I don't think it was tangible because it was so out of like the realm of what uh folks in my family were doing at that time.
Um, like exactly what we're doing.
And then as when I became an astronaut, I think there was a little bit of the same thing.
My sister who said such a funny thing.
I said, "What was your impression?
What was you?"
Because I like to hear what people's impressions are.
Like, what was it like?
[laughter] And I said, "Yeah, that's what's at the bottom of rockets.
That's how they go."
You know, and [laughter] uh but it was it's funny because I think at that point in time, people realized what this is all about.
>> And um I I think he was the one who gave me the Bhagavad Gita.
He was the one who gave me the upnids on my second flight.
So does it still feel the same or does it feel different now?
>> Um >> like when you carry Bhagat Gita with you now when your now that your father's not with you.
I mean that's that's why I'm I'm Indian, right?
>> So what part of it feels different now?
And what specific trait you would say you inherited from your father?
>> Did any part of you change after he's gone?
It was very interesting when he passed away.
[laughter] >> And you so when you carry Lord Ganesh with you, you said like it's been your good luck charm.
Do you see your father in that energy now?
>> Um >> with Lord Ganesh like >> not not [clears throat] as a person, you know, like it's funny like I saying it's his it was his time to leave and and move on to the next thing, right?
So uh as I see that as part of who I am because of him.
>> Oh absolutely I know I know he's watching yeah his his spark is there as he would say his spark is there watching me all the time >> you know because we talking about your father and Lord Ganesh and Bhagwat Gita I have to ask you the most obvious question is >> how does India look like from the space?
Um, and it's so weird because I thought to myself, how could these be fishing boats?
What how could I see a boat?
And then at one point in time I took a picture of the interaction between India and how do we call it nowadays?
>> What's And when you look out of the window, okay, this is my sci-fi brain talking, okay?
So, just don't doubt me on this question, but I'm still going to be What's the strangest thing you've seen in the space which you think is going to be hard to believe for people here?
>> And so you can this time uh 10 from 10 years ago, they fly across the the view like you see the stars of course as they're coming, but they fly across the view which is like whoa, what where did these all come from?
But there is it was an impression like there is a lot of stuff in orbits around the planet.
That's backwards of how um normal cameras or normal setups would would would do it.
>> Do you do you believe there's some life out there?
Um, I mean there's life on Earth in places we never thought they could be.
Yes, they're probably from us because they're in the vicinity of where there's some gas vents whenever we vent overboard.
But what it proves to us is something can live in the vacuum of space with the heat heating and cooling.
Uh, it' be nice to drop a spacecraft over there and drop a rover through the ice and see what's going on.
Um, there's obviously, you know, evidence of water on the moon and on Mars or some type of liquid, right?
So there might be might have been something on Mars at least that we could potentially go see if we go there.
>> So >> do you think there's some species around there?
Who knows?
Who knows?
So pretty impressive and humbling when you think about it.
So, you know, how do we how would we do that, right?
Before you set a foot on your first flight, you saw what happened with Kalpna Chabla and then she's she was an incredible mo woman.
>> Did that event change anything you >> or the way you look at death and life?
So, did that change anything you about death?
And that's why we continue to fly the space shuttle after Challenger.
How do how do we now we need to understand a little bit more about this and make those spacecraft better?
and what are the questions we didn't ask and we can ask those questions for the next spacecraft that we're we're going to fly.
>> And so, when you're strapping yourself in the rocket in that moment, are you like super optimistic or you are going with a thought that you're prepared to die?
It's like a game, right?
It's sort of like uh like at the beginning of a football match, right?
And everybody's pumped up and they're ready to take on the responsibility of whatever action's going to happen, right?
I think that's how we felt at least, you know, Butch and I getting into we're ready for this.
We know we know what we can handle.
We know what we're supposed to do.
It's >> But you do those VR uh simulations, right?
In that, do you do you see yourself maybe never coming back or doing something or no?
Like there's a there's a VR thing that we do for uh this backpack that we have on on the back for our spacew walks, right?
And when you're learning this um for me I wasn't a natural right from the get-go.
I I don't know even what country they're from.
I don't know what nationality they are.
I don't know what ethnicity they are.
I don't know what religion.
I don't know what politics there are from all over the world.
>> Does it get you overwhelmed when you talk about it?
I I hope we would just stop and listen to each other and realize how good human beings are.
>> How are you?
>> How are you?
>> What do you read?
What do you usually read?
But I actually more so like uh [music] what is it called?
Which book were you reading?
And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast.
