What is it?
I want to see where you're going to take this.
Can you define Neil Waves?
What do you think it is?
I don't know if the messaging has gone out in the manner that it should.
But what is Waves really?
And I think what's really interesting about it is it's it's a mix of everything.
What's required to be a successful creator?
Do you think they're more they're getting more ingrained than they have ever been?
Um, well, the way I think about it is Did you vote Republican or Democrat?
And so, if you think about that, what happens on YouTube is a reflection of what's happening in the world.
So, if I were to make the assumption that Trump utilized content creators better in the previous election, does the platform that houses most of the content creators get to sway what should be heard since you control the narrative?
Uh, not the narrative, but who watches which narrative.
And precisely, it's actually meant to be a reflection of what's interesting to you in the moment.
When you open up the YouTube app, it really should be a reflection of Nikil's interests of the moment over some period of time.
And so that's fundamentally what happens on YouTube.
Well, the biggest is we bet on the fact that people would want to watch a conversation, not listen to it.
And obviously COVID was an accelerator when people were at homes, they wanted to see what was happening.
Do you think why people are moving to podcast in the news information space?
Um, one is they would only do it if they felt that they could build an audience on YouTube.
No, my question is more why is the audience choosing to know what happened in the world from a podcaster versus a news media channel?
5 years from today, will you be watching Fox or CNN to know what happened in the world that day or would you be watching a independent creator on YouTube say what it is?
they've been investing and credit to them, right?
So, I just think that 5 years from now, you should expect to see more of that diversity, not less.
I think if I were predicting anything, I don't think it would be a one or zero between those two types of options.
I could very well see a third type of format get invented and find success on the platform.
I know it's tough to put YouTube in a box, but if you were to try and define what YouTube is today, what would you say it is?
I would say um I I think we are we are really our own thing.
We're not a place where you go to connect or share with your friends.
Being a creator-led content generation platform, are you more a place where content is stored and then streamed?
Do you think the technology of doing that defines YouTube more?
Or are you a curator of content which shows me what I want to see more?
what we do.
When you come to the stage to this theater, the most comfortable seats, the best view lines, the most amazing, you know, effects or what have you.
That's what we do.
And I think that's the best really the best way to describe uh what YouTube is and and what YouTube does.
So, is YouTube the show director which picks which show goes on at what time?
Or are you somebody who built the theater?
We are really someone who built the theater, right?
We don't um I don't tell you when to post or what you should say.
And that's what YouTube is.
What I need to do for you is to give you the technology that allows you to match with your audience.
10,000 square foot studios where they're producing amazing content.
it's done with their personalities, but they're doing, you know, kind of roughly what big studios were doing before.
I think the other one that's very exciting is um you know, the advent of AI and what AI will be able to do for creativity.
So, building on that last thought, in the future, if you're competing with say Netflix for mind share, will you become more like Netflix or will Netflix become more like YouTube?
You should expect that same approach uh going into the future.
We will be the leaders when it comes to technology.
But it's going to be our creators that actually determine that sort of creative journey where it goes.
When I was here last just a few months ago uh that number was I think 11,000.
When I first started at YouTube like 10 years ago that number was like four or five.
I've had this conversation with a friend of mine who was recently putting out a movie.
Do you have any thoughts about that?
and I don't go to a multiplex or a theater and I come to YouTube and I release a movie there, uh how do you prevent somebody from copying it and republishing it?
Um by the way, I might be able to guess who this friend of yours is.
The line between a influencer and somebody who wants to start a business is fading in India like it is elsewhere in the world.
The way I think about YouTube is it's really the home for creators.
There's of course how you monetize content on YouTube through advertising or a cut of the ESVOD revenues.
So, I have somebody watching my content where I can market this t-shirt.
What will work today?
What I'm asking you is in a very euphemized manner, what is the YouTube algorithm to a lay man like me and what can I do today to succeed on it?
Success in my definition in this particular subject would be the number of views and distribution I get.
The first is um really think hard about what type of content you're passionate about.
It shouldn't be a means to an end, right?
Um so that that's what I meant by home of creators.
And so the first and most important thing that I would say is think hard about what you are really really excited about.
Um, you know, we work with all kinds of, you know, athletes on our platform and, um, it comes through really, really quickly when they're talking about something that they're really excited about versus not, right?
That's the difference between somebody who's who stops doing it after a few months and that really continues.
A really smart person once said about passion that the passion about something goes away when you truly understand something.
Do you think what is passion to you?
Because the answer to my question, you said, you know, you should build around what you're passionate about.
What is the definition of passion?
Is there anything like that, Neil?
Would you do something if what is what is that for you?
Um those are like two abiding passions I've had since I could like I was, you know, probably five or six years old.
I'm talking about you consuming practicing something?
And so, you know, did I stumble upon this?
But those really are a place where I get to work on technology in service of like the thing that I really love.
When I do something and I'm a little bit better at it than my peer group.
Do you think you were good at technology and hence you felt like you could be passionate about it?
I mean I think what you're describing is kind of like almost a flywheel or chicken and egg type of a thing.
Um I have always been passionate about sports for example, right?
Um, I was never good enough to But were you good?
Were you better than the people you played with?
Are you generally a modest person?
Yes, that's probably how my wife would describe me.
Is that good for work?
Um especially when it comes to difficult trade-offs.
So even though you look like me, you're not really somebody who grew up on the same diet of content as me.
Um, you know what I would say about that though, Nicole?
So that was like a precursor to a lot of what we're talking about today in terms of just changing the media diet through lots of choice for example, right?
And so that was a big sort of I think foundational thing for me when I was a kid.
Like obviously I know your bio, your enormous success professionally, but like that was an interesting anecdote that you told me that was like true to who you are, right?
What is it?
I want to see where you're going to take this.
What is it about, you know, there's a I can put you in a box, not in a bad way, but in the manner that techie growing up, uh, IIT dad, I'm going to make the assumption and extrapolate that you were fairly nerdy growing up, Indian origin, making a lot of money in the US in the last 20, 30 years.
When you come from that background to India, A, what is working for Indian origin people in the US who are accomplishing as much as you are?
And B, when you come here, does projecting patriotism to India almost help open up a market which you and your peer group believe will be really large going forward tomorrow?
Um when you say projecting patriotism, you mean like Indian professing a love for uh like this the admiration for India?
The mask changes depending on who we are sitting around.
So when you come to India now Neil Moan the CEO of YouTube what masks work and what don't and which one do you have on?
So um I always like to think that it's what you see is what you get.
And I see that every time I'm here in India and um I really think that that's where all of this success has come from.
And so, that's really what I would reiterate every time I'm here.
If I had $100 to invest and I could buy Spotify, YouTube, a movie theater business, a Hollywood studio, a news broadcasting company, where would I put my money?
If I could only put it in one place for the next decade.
Um, I would again just just uh maybe broaden it.
I would just say I think that really YouTube is different than all of those pieces that you touched on.
That's what we uh want to do.
And if I were to go back to the fact that I'm speaking to entrepreneurs who want to use this platform to grow a business, can you give me five non-obvious insights about the world of content that I might not be able to find online?
you get to control what that conversation looks like and you get the feedback immediately.
Um, but that's that's kind of the the the the third thing that I would say.
One thing that I think is was not obvious for a while is now starting to be more obvious around content is um it truly is multi-creen, right?
Like you know like the mental model when you say the word YouTube, what pops into your head?
But I also think that uh entrepreneurs should think about other types of monetization models like ESVOD.
What would you build that can compete with YouTube as a better place to tell stories?
That's what our creators and our viewers expect whether they say it or not.
What we're doing, and you know, I'm sure lots of competition is doing, but what we're doing at YouTube is how do we turn it into tools that allow for that disruption to occur because you can't bury that technological disruption, but um allow for it to feel like it is in the hands of the creative people.
And that's probably something uh that would have taken us days or weeks to put together if that's what we wanted our set to be.
But it is disruptive because it did disrupt a lot of things that needed to happen in the preAI scenario, right?
Like that that days or weeks that would have taken.
And I could give you many examples of that in the creative industry.
And again, if you had $100 that you could bet behind one large AI company, which company has the most data?
Is it Google?
Is it Microsoft?
Is it as an outsider trying to take a bet on the world of AI broadly?
Where do you think that money should go?
Um, you know, is it I think it's hard to answer who has the most data or what have you.
So I see how powerful that innovation can be.
How do they actually show up?
How do they show up in a way where they're useful and they capture the imagination but not just capture the imagination once and then they're forgotten about but then really become something mainstream.
Oh my god, you can you can create that amazing video out of thin air from just this quick text prompt.
Um, but when we talk to our creators, when I talk to creators, they they love that feature.
Uh, but they also talk to me things about like, you know, why don't you do something even more kind of basic basic and mundane, which is like, why not just give me a translation of my video in 10 big languages?
Why not give it to me in a thousand different languages?
Like, I have a video, I have no idea what to do next, and I'm a travel vlogger.
Um well, could I iterate with an AI to actually help me come up with ideas on, you know, the next where should I take my next trip and what sort of video should I produce around it?
Are attention spans falling or growing?
What do you think?
Um what are you betting more on?
Long form or shorts?
I mean I think I really view them as kind of a I I don't view them as two separate things I guess is what I would say.
It's like if you take uh put your head back to where YouTube wasif we were just celebrating our 20th birthday, right?
When I turn on a screen, my TV, and I watch Netflix, Mhm.
But when I turn on my TV and I watch YouTube, very subconsciously, I feel like I'm doing something right.
I don't know how to describe this.
And when I'm learning, some anxiety in me is alleviated.
And when I say learning, I mean the broad definition of the term learning.
And then there's the other sort of very obvious thing, which is like, well, how do I fix my bike or how did I how do I fix my garage door?
I love like, it's kind of random, but I love like logistics and logistics patterns and how things happen sort of in infrastructure.
That that's that's every that's where the experience comes from.
So 5 years ago when I turned on YouTube, it was to play songs.
Now when I think of a song, I go to Spotify.
When I think of a podcast or something around learning, I go to YouTube.
When I think of entertainment, entertainment, I go to Netflix.
Do you think the music battle Spotify has gained a lot of traction in over the last few years?
Why do you feel that way about music?
It's just how I use it.
So that is core to what we do.
And um I would say that that's a really big phenomenon on YouTube just like it is on other platforms.
I'm not sure why you feel that way but Indian music is like a core part of our our our investment.
Any fleeting thoughts?
Neil, you want to tell us something?
Anything that you'd like to tell us?
Um no I think what I would say first of all thank you so much for making the time for doing this.
It's still the early innings, right?
How was it?
