[Music] [Applause] [Music] uh where Nik >> you told him 5 minutes >> like he has 2 minutes not >> yeah 2 minutes Everything looks good.
>> Everyone who's done can leave.
>> How are you?
I'm guessing it must be really hectic, right?
How is it different, Sam?
If you needed to, you know, plan an event for you, it could do that, too.
>> Is it more agentic in nature in the sense that sequential tasking you're one step closer to it?
So I'm like very impressed by how uh long and complex of a task it can carry out.
>> So we did a call a couple of weeks ago when I was bugging you about what sectors and themes to invest in for the next decade.
But what do I do now?
A what do I study?
If I'm starting a company, what kind of company do I start?
Or if I were to even find a job, what industry do you think has some kind of tailwind?
I I I think like that 25-year-old in Mumbai can probably do more than any previous 25-year-old in in history could.
It's really amazing what you can do with a tool like this.
>> Is there anything in particular you want to say about GPD5?
>> GPT5 does does feel to us like it's going to be another big step forward in how people uh use these systems.
We've taken a lot of feedback from users in India about what they'd like from us.
Is there anything that I could build on top of GPT5 today as a 25-year-old in India that you think are lowhanging fruits per se that I should definitely look at?
>> I think you could build an entire startup way more efficiently than you ever could before.
If I could push you to be like a bit more specific and say I get science but uh what do I study?
Is there any specific thing I study in order to use AI to develop something in science?
when I was in college or in high school that it seemed to me that the obvious thing to do was learn to program.
And right now, learning how to use AI tools is probably the most important specific hard skill to learn.
Learning how to figure out what people want um is is really quite important.
>> And if I were to build on top of that, and when you say learn to adapt and change and learn AI tools faster, is there a path?
I'm just looking for a light that somebody could begin walking towards.
How does one get better at the AI tools that are available out there?
Uh why was that?
What did Paul see you see in you?
And what do you think is the innate skill set that sets you apart from your peers?
Um I mean there's like a lot of people who are starting great companies.
You know when we started it was it was like 4 and a half years before we had a first product and it was very uncertain.
We were just doing research trying to figure out how to get AI to work and we had very different ideas than the rest of of the world.
>> Is that a V or a I thing?
Cuz I'm speaking about when you were 19.
Uh, me when I was 19, I barely remember that.
I was like a I was like a naive 19-year-old that didn't really know what he was doing.
He said that a prince should always appear appear but not be religious, compassionate, trustworthy, humane and honest.
Uh, this projection of humility, is it apt for the world we live in or the world you're walking into?
Is that a good image to project into the world?
Does it the image of humility really work today?
>> You mean should someone project that image?
Um, a thing I say all the time to people is no one knows what happens next.
>> And how is that?
So I ponder on this a lot Sam uh kids, why people have kids and also questions like what happens to religion and marriage tomorrow?
Can I ask you why you had a kid?
Do you think it's the biological need to procreate?
And uh I was like willing to take the leap of faith that that would be true for me, too.
And do you have an insight into the future of marriage, religion, and kids?
Uh I have I don't I'm obviously not sure why that's been happening, but I hope we'll really reverse course on that.
If we all had more, do you think we would still want more if we all had enough?
Do you think the world retains largely the world retains the current model of capitalism and democracy in a way?
What happens if a company X let's say open AI gets to the point where it is 50% of world GDP.
Does society allow for that or >> I would bet not.
But if for some reason that did happen, I think society would say, "We don't think so."
Um, so I I would guess that's what happens and it's not like one company is ever half of global GDP.
I at one point I did worry that that might happen, but I think that was a naive take, right?
But do you think the odds of the world moving towards socialism go up or if something gets that that large, will it get nationalized and we become more socialist?
Can we find a way to a privacy preserving way to identify unique humans and then create a new network and a new currency around that?
If AGI eliminates scarcity or scarcity by virtue of increasing productivity, could one also assume that it would be deflationary in nature?
Um I was asking someone at dinner the other night if they thought that uh interest rates should be minus 2% or 25%.
So, I think it's like, yeah, it should be deflationary eventually, but I could see it being weird in the short term.
Do you suspect it would be minus 2%.
>> What happens to them in a deflationary world?
You know, >> I would bet they go up actually.
When you have two kettles, it still has some value.
But when you have 20 kettles, it has no value.
Do you think the world goes in that direction?
>> Do you think there's a use case for the rappers that are getting built on these large models right now?
What happens to a rapper like that does it get innovated out by the model itself at some point of time?
the the the main thing I would say is using AI itself does not create a defensible business.
Should one worry that will happen here as well because you're no longer just a model but you're foring into so many different businesses.
You know, you could like sell a flashlight for a dollar that turned on the flash on your on your phone.
And in the early days, like the GBT3 days, I think you had a lot of kind of toy applications, as you should.
So if you lay emphasis on owning the customer almost like the interface with the customer, would you say the relationship gets deeper when I sell a service on top of your model versus a product?
So do you think the world inordinately favors contrarian behavior tomorrow?
I think uh the thing I'm thinking is how much will the models learn to do that?
Um that value of that should go up over time.
>> Outside of being contrary, is there anything else that I could do that a model will take longer to learn?
People want to know a little bit about your life story, what got you here.
They want to be able to like talk to other people about this like shared sense of who you are.
Um and >> why why is that Sam?
Why do you think that is >> that you know like I think that's also like deep in in our biology.
Uh, I mean, I can I think it make ton of sense of why we we would evolve that way, but you know, here we are.
>> Is a real person somebody who screws up unlike a model.
So maybe that's part of what we associate with a real person.
What is the difference between AGI and human intelligence today and tomorrow?
Uh do you have a view on robotics and what happens there like humanoid or other form of robotics?
Um >> is there a reason why they need to have humanlike form?
How do I make up for manufacturing scale as someone starting up?
>> Sam, what happens to the form factor?
I know you will not likely speak about what you're doing with Johnny IV and what happens there or maybe you will but what happens to form factor overall?
Uh that I think isn't quite what we want for like a the sort of sci-fi dream of the AI companion.
So the form factor that enables that you could imagine a lot of things.
>> Is that the form factor with Johnny Ive like a sensor?
>> Does that solve the climate change problem?
Would you put money on that?
But it would certainly be a great step forward.
What's in this AI realm for India as a country?
What's the opportunity for us?
>> That that was what I I mean there's lots of things happening there.
