What is the most ridiculous search query you have read?
I still want to be able to breathe but it should cover my nose and holes for my eyes and I want to like bike.
Explain me how does the answer comes in.
Who loses the most if you win?
What would be Google be like?
Our today's guest is Aravvin Sri Navas who's a founder of perplexity.
We learn how AI actually works and what's the future of AI and what's the craziest conspiracy you have heard about AI?
But do you think that's possible?
Do you see any potential political threats coming on Perplexity?
Are you scared of Elon?
Um, and um, perplexity is a metric in AI that measures how well you understand something.
But did you meet Jeff?
How did that happen?
He referenced specific sections, what he liked and what he was not sure about.
Uh, asked me for things like what I think about like the chip space and stuff.
What do you think is the reason why did he invest in you?
He probably What do you think?
I mean he knows it better, but what do you think?
Why did he I'm guessing he probably tried out the product and like like you know it worked as expected and I thought like it you know it's but he must be getting thousand products which are living up to the expectation and working as described or explained by you.
So we actually had a pretty good time to um like attract a lot of users where like our service is basically not uh possible anywhere else.
I don't care what it costs you to do that.
Maybe next time I meet I'm just going to ask him like hey like why did you invest?
kind of again look like if we become really big um you know even then I think the the the valuation which he came in and the amount he put in like it'll move the needle for him a bit financially but it's not it's not for that reason that's like a lot of other ways for him to do that exactly exactly and what what do you think makes him special why is he the number one why is he one of the biggest founders in the world because you met him did you notice or observe anything different that makes him a star founder?
So you have to be able to write down how you think and how you make decisions which is very going a step further.
We like like other people saying we're good or like what we're saying is correct.
We don't care if like what we're saying is actually correct by by nature.
So I I think like that clarity of thought is what is making makes him pretty singular.
Um how old are you?
I could download like 10 lectures in my head in the last 3 hours.
But okay explain me how does the answer comes in.
So if you and me type the same problem here together are there chances that we'll see the same answer?
Do you go into your board meetings or investor meetings and be like, "Hey, you know what?
No, we we don't talk about how to beat Google.
Um I think we just talk about how to grow Perplexity.
Compare for a layman like me and for all the viewers who are watching.
What are the weaknesses which Google has?
Um and that tells you what people are mostly doing.
But you're not asking questions like oh like uh what how many times has Tendulkar uh scored a um 100 and India has lost the match.
Now you can ask me how many people are really asking these kind of complicated questions.
You're going to ask things like oh like how do I fix my how do I renew my other card?
What what do I do?
Is it the one that's starting from answers or is it the one that already has links and these one box answers?
Nobody knows, right?
What would beating Google be like it would feel amazing like there I I was definitely inspired by Larry and Sergey a lot and the founding story of Google the academic roots they're deeply inspir I mean I've worked as an intern there both deep mind and brain and a lot of the Google culture engineering focus I'm big fan of that.
I think that is the true true uh benchmark and that's going to take a while but what would it look like?
So we so I think it's going to be very interesting to see how the behavior of the new generation changes.
Uh so so one way to mark like a marker is like what what product do they use when they grow up.
Uh and my prediction is it won't be all Google.
Um and I think that mentality of like, oh, I'm the next Google means I need to have 90% market share should go away.
So when I say we're competing with Google, I'm only saying about the core search experience.
If if it was not under threat, they wouldn't be doing like Gemini AI overview, right?
So is it fair to say that the success would look like when an entire generation would use your product as a default?
I don't know what they are.
Maybe ask like Microsoft Google M like something like that right?
I I think that would be a pretty big win.
Where do you stand today?
Uh and that's why it's really interesting.
And uh in terms of funding, if you want to compare yourself with let's say a chat GPT, Google and you where do you stand?
So in total they raised 20 billion or 25 billion, right?
How much have you raised total?
I mean uh in total we've raised around like 800 or 900 million, right?
Um, like like I said, if that was true, then we would never have been even being in the conversation.
And your current focus is revenue or growth?
And then what about XAI?
Are are you scared of Elon?
Like what?
Um, and I think it's cool that he's also building something here in the space and I would never underestimate him.
And I feel um Elon's entry just makes the whole market even bigger that if it takes if some if something is worth his time then it just means like the market's huge and but does it bother you?
Does it scare you in some say?
No, but what does it mean?
Like if someone like him raises the money, does it mean raising money for you gets difficult?
So yeah definitely like there are some advantages having a lot of capital but at the same time uh it's also how you spend it.
At least that's what I read.
So uh that's not how we are spending our money.
Um, and now you can ask like, oh, what if they train an insanely better model than the rest?
Does it give him any edge?
Like I I would just go by past actions are a good predictor of future and he um owns X. Yeah.
So he could have done that like just gone to the algorithm like tweaked the knobs to like lower the engagement score for those tweets.
What do you mean by that?
like you know Google in the past has been like accused of um like at least like ranking uh bias where if you tried Trump news you would get both it would kind of reformulate your query to like Harris Trump and give you like both articles u whereas for um if you just type Harris news you'll just get her news or uh autocomplete when you type in Google that your query are auto suggested, right?
At least three or four instances like these like um where Google clearly had some ranking bias.
Um I think like for example the Joe Rogan Trump podcast when people went to search for on YouTube you couldn't even find it.
So clearly like they're changing and so maybe what I said you know in the Lex podcast one year ago may not be relevant now.
Do you see any potential political threats coming on Perplexity at some point?
If there is some article that said something negative about somebody and uh that surfaced in an answer and like someone's upset about it and um even though the answer gives all perspectives u there are chances that some group of people could get upset about it, right?
At one point, Google Cloud employees um protested that Google's working with the Pentagon and now like they just fired those people who did it again and they're competing with Amazon and Microsoft to win those contracts because clearly that moves their revenue up and moves the stock up and that's what the shareholders want, right?
But would you lose out on these opportunities even if it means sacrificing revenues for your company?
What what do you mean by lose out on options?
Complicated question, right?
What do you see like where is India today in terms of in the world of AI?
How far are we from becoming even a contender in the AI world?
Like I mean I'm sorry if I'm repeating what I said earlier but I think we are very well positioned in terms of adoption.
Um what are the challenges that you see here?
I think the challenges are how can people using these tools earn more?
They should they should ideally because uh they should be able to do more work now uh faster throughput.
Uh the second thing a challenge I would say is okay now that you guys really know how to use these tools and you get a sense of it.
So uh the bright side is we know how to use these tools.
So you said people should start earning more.
I would say healthcare.
Um how a financial consultant can use AI to give better.
And like create mark value from nothing, right?
And what are the businesses that are going to feel the maximum tension because of AI?
And what's the craziest conspiracy you've heard about AI?
M but do you think that's possible?
What would you do?
You're in a sort of competition and race with all these large companies and incredibly successful founders, right?
Who loses the most if you win?
Um, whoever is going to crack this AI native answer engine assistant, let's say you cracked it, okay?
So it's like a phenomena where people forget information on day-to-day basis a lot because they rely on technology.
So increase of technology is going to just increase the digital amnesia where people are forgetful left, right, center.
I are you good at like driving with a physical map versus using Google maps?
They would have taken a physical print out and like figured out Yeah.
that like like they would have mapped what they see in front of them to the 2D layout and figured it out.
It's very dynamic, right?
So today it could be as small as something like let's say remembering a phone number.
So that's why that's which which I think is totally okay by the way.
I guess what you're trying to say is like what the next generation is going to load their RAM with is going to look very different from us.
Um, and it's going to be interesting to see like how they spend their mental compute.
Yeah, that's what I'm telling.
That's what someone told me.
Is that true?
That's why I asked you this question.
Do you go to these meetings and be like hey I'm going to beat I mean you're a YouTuber you understand I do.
