I mean, the the emotional part would be, you know, that constant sense of um whatever, but not regret.
I don't think the word regret would come in.
Could you share what your formula is to wake up the next morning after failure and start again or keep going?
[music] What are you looking at right now down that runway?
What does that mean?
How did how did you decide that you wanted to make toothbrushes and how did it go from making toothbrushes to making television shows?
>> So I what I was was I what I was clear was that I wanted to start something and do something on my own.
What I was clear was that I'm not somebody who can implement somebody else's vision and what I was clear at that stage was that I'm extremely unclear what I want to do once I decided that I absolutely wanted to do something on my own.
So a contract manufacturing which is what we started with at that particular point of time.
Today a Foxcom would do it.
Today there are many others who do it but I skate in a different manner and you set up data centers for people who are doing that.
Um did you come from a family of entrepreneurs and business people?
>> So for people who are watching uh who young people watching who like finishing college saying I'd like to be an entrepreneur but I don't know if that's for me or should I get a job, should I not get a job, what should I do?
How do they how do you know?
Um which of these businesses brought most value to you?
So, again, um, [clears throat] to brush was opportunistic, media was serendipity, right?
So I think creativity was at the core in the early days that leads to what I think I want to do for impact.
I would say there were more times when I felt not so than so.
So I think for most parts I would say you know it was more like this is is this really what you want to do.
So that self-confidence and reassurance that you need to do that says this is what I want to do especially to get up from flops.
So I think I would say exactly the reverse.
>> But at the same time did I feel that I'm on to something?
Now what do you do?
Now what do you do?
How long can you sit on success?
What could you share what your formula is to wake up the next morning after failure and start again or keep going?
>> But that's the thing that takes a beating, right?
During failure, especially in media when it's public failure, when it's it's a little more obvious.
You can you can beat yourself up harder and faster than most people.
I think the question is what are you here?
You're make if you're making decisions 10, 20 a day, do you really believe all 20 decisions are going to turn out right?
>> So, should you then start thinking out that should I do three decisions a day?
Which one is a better ratio?
But most people would say mathematically.
How does that make sense?
That's why you get up and start thinking every single day, am I on to something?
What does that mean?
Well, in the sense when you have your sense of real success, everyone starts measuring.
In that 15-year journey almost, you know, 1,470 would have in some way packed up, consolidated, gone under.
It gives you a little bit more of a singular focus in what you want to do because otherwise you can be really pulled.
>> And actually that'll weigh on your mind as a failure and a pull down because failure is not about something went wrong and somebody gave you a flop, right?
So a lot of us get pulled down because >> why didn't I think of that is a failure.
Now that can either eat you up >> or you can be even more restless with yourself to see how am I not going to allow this to happen.
Is that too Is that too evolved?
>> So there's a lot of that insecurity that builds in okay am I doing it wrong?
Should I change what I'm doing?
Should I change what I'm doing in order to suit the people who have the funds?
What's your response to all of that?
>> When somebody's investing in you, they're very investing in your vision.
That's what they pull in money for.
So each of them will say no but when I did this investment this didn't go wrong.
The minute you move past one or two investors, I would say your maturity level has to go up because yes, you're going to get feedback.
So the insights are very strong, but you've got to be able to figure out that if two people say this is not going to work, two people, how are you going to handle that?
>> So as an investor yourself at this point, um do you believe in the bootstrapping method more or the raise the funds, go after the market, build that value?
It should never be used.
I don't know what that means.
It's like one man's meat and another man's poison was an old phrase, right?
What is a playbook?
How can my playbook be the same as your playbook?
So, you know, should one go bootstrapping?
I think it just depends on how and what you want how you want to run the business.
See, bootstrapping does not mean cutting corners, right?
>> As um as an investor, when you when you hear ideas and when you meet founders, um what strikes you right now about a good solid business?
No, I think it would be exactly how the person has been able to explain that.
Now, one may say now what can you do so innovative in agriculture but it is still 55 55% of our GDP.
I want to understand where you stand because I know that you're doing a lot of work in that space right now.
Do we have an environment to actually create our AI capacities, our applications, our data centers?
>> Israel's been at war for all almost 100 years, >> right?
And I'm not here to talk about I'm not a pro or con as far as what goes on in the Middle East right now.
But all I would just say to you is you create your own environment.
Can you imagine somewhere where for 2 years you have to enlist in the army when you never know you're going to you're going to be called.
You can go out and do it what you want to do.
This is such a myriad diverse market here where if you really punch hard on something you'll get somewhere.
But today when you talk about space India will come in the top five countries where anyone talks about it.
Why?
It's what the private sector may also be doing as we go forward.
what inv you spoke about theme and MSME um should there be and we we've had so much talk about it creating um spaces and environments for the MSMES by sector where they're able to raise debt easily where they're able to sort of get >> I think they do have a that I I do want to tell you when I started with uh toothbrushes many years ago while it was in it was relegated to the small scale industry and then it went out from there I don't think you need protectionism today but at that stage no there was no way I get a loan.
And I, you know, I think we have our interest rates where we have them.
Has that created um has that created a very competitive environment?
If I had this my god I should be able to triple my thing.
Why don't we get out there and innovate?
Because otherwise, what's the point?
How do you like it?
If I can do anything under the sun to get where I want to get.
But no, I don't think you can do anything under the sun to get to where you want to get.
>> An example?
I mean, what do you mean by raw ambition?
How is that?
There are people who are building incredible companies that are people who are actually getting out there.
>> Are we calling ourselves humans?
[laughter] Are we starting to brand ourselves?
Why would you choose?
And if we and when we're talking about skilling right now, if the environment is changing so quickly, where does the skilling go then?
Where do we take these people?
How do you employ them?
And >> yes, >> where do they go?
We can sit here on these round tables for the next 20 years and debate how we going to get jobs for people.
There's a limit to what the government can do.
So I'm having a conversation with him downstairs when he when I was going for my walk and you know and he's saying whatever whatever but he's earning 1 lakh 20,000 1 lakh 40,000 rupees a year right or in that zone but he wouldn't have been able to do it before but if he's now not thinking that wow I am blessed to have got this job in the first place well what am I going to do with it then we have a problem so we've got to get to the DNA of that and my conversation with some of the delivery boys are this is your today's job what are you doing for the next 3 years?
Because if you don't want to do this, then what are you going to do?
Who's going to offer you a job?
Why do you think you need to do that?
What are you doing every single day, you know, versus I'm a driver in a car, but I'm I'm actually taking an online course and I'm going to I'm taking an online course and skidding because I want to do something else.
When I didn't have the money, I was a I was doing an usher for a Daras Singh wrestling match for many Sundays for about three years.
But why?
Why?
Are you also looking at social sector impact in the same way?
I want to Is that the way social sector impact should be run?
So I think uh yeah, that's what it would be.
>> And also the the challenge within social sector impact where yes, we've managed to reach these many people now, but 10 years down the line is it still creating impact?
What happened to those people?
Is there a need then to track that?
And you may be in the same job, you may be looking differently, but the way you do it, how you've grown as an individual, all of that may happen, right?
I think Edute came about when a few companies wanted to raise a lot of money.
>> And what is Upgrade's focus right now?
You actually feel you don't know how to think about marketing Excel cheating and you need an MBA.
Why?
Why do we keep putting MBA as the only benchmark?
>> Right?
>> MBA has this soft feel about it, right?
>> So that's why if you look at just the MBA context, it's that's why it's personal.
If you believe you want that, then you should go ahead and do it.
Will you have to unlearn at least 50 to 60% of everything you learn there?
So I >> I would say there is no oneizefits-all.
If that's what you want to do, do it >> but do it for the right reason.
>> Admired by who?
>> By the people who then look at the money and say, "Wow, that's a that's a good amount of money for you to walk away with."
But m by whom?
Can you tell us how that deal came about after all of those years of building that organization?
Second, you don't pop the question of when you want to exit.
Why don't we all put it together?
>> And I think that would be the second one as far as that.
>> Am I doing something wrong?
Do you did you look over your shoulder saying, "I wish they were doing that differently.
That's how you should look at it.
And that's the real that's really when you exit.
But I think sometimes in global the the people who come in there, it's not about whether they did it right or wrong.
Is that is that the correct term?
That's how we met and but life changed in a different way and I think much later on we got married.
Now, one would say, how is a founder going to do that?
And I think that's how you build long-term value into organizations and you look at it that way.
So actually it should have been a closed case but we actually felt from a local perspective that would be the case.
So I think when she came in here she had done monitor kids shows for some of the other broadcasters.
So that was some knowledge that says these work much better than what the entire kids channels work.
>> And what was that like in in the beginning to you know, >> I don't know what the other part was like.
So I can't really say what it was like.
M >> so most of the cases where you feel of I can't beat him join him.
No in fact that was the first thing to me that that I can't do what everyone else here is doing in any case.
Why don't you just stick to >> that's the conviction of raw ambition that you need.
What was I mean was there was there a formula with which you chose your stories?
Uh, where three never got released.
Is it done?
Is it over?
But are they going to eventually is everyone eventually going to migrate?
So will even rural India watch it on a different kind of screen?
>> Will the storytelling and the source be one which is from an OTT platform or somebody where you can do binge watching versus a broadcast channel or airwave?
And the subscription model versus the where you get it and which signal you get it from is going to evolve.
>> So right now as um as an investor as a business person what do you find exciting about India?
Do you have any advice?
Are you first ready to lose a lot of money before the fact that you may make a little bit of money?
>> So, someone who comes in saying, "Okay, I want to be an angel investor.
But if it's a pool of what you want to do, that's perfectly fine.
But I don't but I think that firstly, I don't think only is is is something that I would recommend for for that.
What is the satisfaction?
What what what do you like about [laughter] >> so just and I think it's a great it's a great way because frankly you are No, no, no.
>> But is it fun is what I was trying to explain to you.
Not that is it intelligent.
Is it the smart thing to do?
>> Is it fun?
Do you find uh there is a change in uh ambition, structure, attitude of Gen Z entrepreneurs?
I think each one has their pros and cons in what we want to do.
But was there the same sense of raw ambition for those with even bigger hurdles to cross at that stage that forced you to be a lot more frugal and more guaranteed to outlast people?
Is there innovation that you find very interesting coming from tier 2, tier three rural India?
>> Give me examples of what you've seen.
>> I don't think anyone will be able to close the doors, >> right?
Has the entire geopolitical situation changed here right now?
But their economic liberation would not have happened in a different manner.
So each one I think has to bring their own destiny for what they necessarily want want to do.
>> But on the on the other side I would say 30% he's put the world on notice.
So, should they not exist?
Is there a certain certain value to each of those systems?
>> Um, are we dropping the ball here because there is an opportunity to build great cities of the future?
I don't know how where that line comes from.
>> So, what the hell are you talking about?
And why do I have to keep listening to Hollywood lines like that?
And that's where the ego gets to a certain level.
So everything is a little bit more life-threatening than what it was.
Are we doing enough in your opinion?
These ones is where I think I mean you look we're sitting here in this room Mumbai yesterday.
You could see all the ships in the oceans way far away.
This morning, you could see a damn thing >> overnight.
It's it's actually where you know we're talking about it from an air point of view.
But if I if you sit down with our farmers, they wanted it from a very different point of view because they don't know what to do with their crops, right?
How do I >> how do I plant crops that need light weather, but it's going to poor cats and dogs for the next 14 days or I'm not getting sunshine where I need to do that.
