If he was a country, he would have the third most swimming medal ever.
>> Where did this obsession of winning come from?
>> How did this come up?
>> And what goes on in your head before even the race is start >> when I'm on the block?
Like I'm just >> Do you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors?
>> I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing on what I need in that moment.
When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full-blown war.
>> Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor?
I don't care who you are.
>> Tell me about that phase which is your 2008 Beijing where you won eight gold medals.
I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me, that could beat me.
What's next?"
>> 6 year stretch where I didn't miss a single day.
A lot of people say why and I say why not.
That's why I got the results that I got.
If this man was a country, he would have been the third highest country with the medals.
There is no other athlete in the world who has achieved this much in a single sport as much as this person has achieved.
How did he build this beast wild mindset?
>> You know, actually before I even I even start this, how about for 0.01% 01% people who have no clue who you are.
Why don't you tell us, Michael, who are you?
Um, you know, I think for me going through what I went through the tail end of my career, um, really helped me explore more about who I am.
So for me, that's why I say the second part is so much it's so much bigger.
>> But before we go there, I want to understand something about you when you were a child.
So that's when I got into the water and then the water was kind of a release for me.
Um and I still remember her name and and uh I still remember what she looks like.
I still remember where I was sitting in the class.
Uh, and I think at the time that was pretty much when I had stopped taking um, rolin, which was for my ADHD.
My mom is just like, I don't know what to do with them.
Fast forward now to where I'm 40 and I have four kids.
Like that's just who I am.
What do you think that teacher didn't get or the world didn't get about that kid who was not able to sit properly?
Because >> you definitely had something in you and you >> I just thought she didn't know how to whether it's a lack of better way of saying it like I didn't I don't think she wanted to deal with me or knew how to deal with me or knew how to handle me or kne or knew how to taught me teach me, right?
But when a teacher, you know, instantly shuts down on a kid, it just doesn't look good for the teacher.
>> I was kind of like, just get me out of here, you know?
Or if I was learning things faster than everybody else, then she gave me he or she gave me stuff to help me stay focused, right?
Um and she just didn't know what to do.
Uh it was sad and I'm sure there still are teachers out there in the world that are like that and it is it is unfortunate.
Um but to the kids out there who do have an experience like that, know that there are other outcomes that can happen in life.
That was it, you know?
And and you know, like throughout my career, my coach would always put quotes on the top of the workout.
So yeah, I can >> Which one's your favorite quote now?
>> I mean my my favorite quote is actions speak louder than words, you know, like that's that's one of my all-time favorite handsown quotes because it it's true, you know, like you can say whatever you want, but if your actions don't back up those words, then all it is is just a bold-faced lie, you know?
And I knew that there had to be a process on how to get there, right?
What what do you think?
You said water became your escape and you were just always in the pool taking out your anger and everything like it it became your coping mechanism in some sort and you were always in the pool, right?
>> What do you think?
What did water give you emotionally which nothing else could?
I think thinking back to it and, you know, kind of being able to dive through my career a little bit inside the pool, um, I was super sensitive to every little part of the water on my body, right?
So, like when I would swim, I'm feeling the water in the palm of my hands.
Like that's where I'm feeling all the pressure.
I don't have to think about what I'm having for dinner or what I'm making for dinner or what I'm doing tomorrow or this or that.
I'm just there in the moment, right?
Like I can just be and I can swim for 500, which is I mean minimal compared to what I used to swim.
Um or I could swim 2,000.
>> Do you think you were running away from something >> or you were you were swimming away from something or swimming towards something?
But I think, you know, the reason why I found swimming is my two older sisters swam as well.
Like, who doesn't want to go to the Olympic Games?
Um, and I just kind of followed and and you know, naturally as a kid, if you learn that you get good or you start getting faster, you kind of think how fast can I get?
And that's kind of what I did, you know, like from the start until the end of my career, I was kind of like, all right, how how much faster can I get?
Can I drop a second?
Can I drop a half a second?
Can I drop two tents?
like what is the maximum potential that I have inside of me and how can I challenge myself in different ways?
Um, swimming for me like again like I would scream underwater.
Like I would call my coach every single [ __ ] name on the planet.
Um I would just scream and then naturally I would still get through it and it would go well and blah blah blah blah blah.
But it's like in that moment like for me screaming was one of those things I would just let everything out.
>> Can you show me what is it like?
What's the lion breath?
And naturally, like naturally when when you do that, your shoulders do drop a little bit, right?
You are able to kind of come back to earth, right?
Like I feel like that's what that's what it is.
Like what Snickers is saying like when you have a sugar low, you eat some sugar and naturally you feel better.
But here it's like if you're stressed or you're frustrated and you take that deep breath, you're able to be like, okay, so why am I going through that?
What feelings and emotions am I going through?
Um I don't do lion breast that often, but uh when I'm in the pool, it's very easy to do it.
>> Oh, >> or like underwater like underwater, right?
Like when I was going and taking like when I was doing my streamlines off the wall and I was kicking underwater.
I would >> there were a lot of fbombs that were said.
And people could hear it honestly like when you're in a set like person next to me be like, "Did you just scream?"
Um, and everybody I think probably has something different, right?
Um I mean I used to do it right when I get up onto the block, >> you know, right after I did my arm slap.
It was something that I would always do just clear my throat.
>> So is it you were screaming a lot because you were obsessed with trying to win or was it >> a lot of different things?
>> Where did this obsession of winning come from?
Was it >> hating to lose?
>> Even when you were like 9, 10, 11, >> how did this come up?
Like I always felt from from when I was a little kid like there was there was there was no second place.
Do you think it has anything to do with not getting your father's approval when you were a kid?
Uh, because I I mean I would say a lot of it probably came from him.
Um he I think he was the first person to get cut from uh the Washington Redskins back in the day uh when they were the Redskins.
Um, I would say my sister Whitney and I are uberly competitive, more competitive than my older sister Hillary.
Um, you know, for me, it ended up becoming preparation, right?
If you're not prepared, then you're going to get second or you're going to get third or you're going to get last, right?
Because there's always somebody that is overly prepared or more prepared than you are, no matter what.
That's why I got the results that I got.
>> Let's let's go to your preparation time and like when you first started with your coach.
And first when your coach spotted you in the same year, he went to your mother and said that you're going to win an Olympics or you're going to be in the Olympics, right?
What was that story?
And I would always play, play, play.
And I would see him go up and down the pool, walk, run, arms up in the air, screaming, whistling.
Um but what I learned it was just the passion that he has and that he that he had back then that he still has today.
Um >> but did he come to you or you went to him?
Like he basically would wind me up and I would just go or he would say jump and I would say how high.
when you were 11 and he said that to you for the first time that you could go to Olympics in next four years.
Did you believe it or did you act act like someone who believed it until it actually became true?
>> Something that he saw of me in the pool gave him confidence that he could do that.
Um, and honestly, I think back to the question you asked earlier, you know, he then became a father figure in my life, right?
Because I mean, I literally spent 25 years traveling the world with him, right?
Um, and and you know, I think once I did make that Olympic team, that really really made me trust him because I was like like like for me because I know you said don't skip, but like when I made that Olympic team and I got fifth, I was pissed, but I was hungry, right?
It's not why I came.
And for people who don't know, that means world record.
And I was like, "What's this?"
let's see what happens.
So, like again, like that's where the whole trust really really opened up.
Uh, you know, I I had some good things going on with my body and how I swam and the reach.
Um, so for me, like when I got to him at 11 years old, I I still remember back in the day.
So the people who don't understand swimming, a six beat kick is three kicks per one stroke.
Did I agree with what he was doing?
But I learned the importance of the small technical points that you have to have in order to be able to go wherever you want to go, right?
you can't take the thousand level class without taking the one through nine, right?
And he taught me that process throughout my career and we were able just to sharpen up those tools, right?
How do you shave off 5100s of a second?
>> Is it a turn?
Is it a kick?
Is it a streamline?
What is it?
Is it dive angle?
>> Who was more ambitious?
You or your coach?
Um, and then when I came back, I think we both wanted it.
When I came back to finish in 16, um, we were both equally as hungry and wanting to do or wanting to finish, I guess, what we had started the right way.
Like there's not a coach on this planet that could have helped me coached me to be able to do what I was able to do.
But, you know, I think again like it's the passion that we had and and we learned a lot about each other through the process, right?
It was, you know, he had to adapt, I had to adapt cuz I wasn't that 11-year-old kid that he once started working with when I was 30, >> right?
What was when was that?
What was that story?
So, I think once you get caught up in just making the Olympic team, then sometimes you might slip and not pay attention to the small details that are going to help you be your best self at the Olympic Games, right?
Like I I mean, I see it in I see it with athletes that have been on Olympic teams with me, right?
That was my goal from day one when I had my first Olympic race.
But it's how do I get faster than my trials swim, right?
What was I talking about?
If I can do that, then I'm in I'm in the realm of winning an Olympic medal, right?
>> How did you feel like you were 15 when you entered Olympics?
How did you feel?
>> But you messed up in your first Olympics game, right?
You know, I think the biggest thing I learned from that moment is is just understanding what needs to take place at the most pressured moment, right?
And especially in Australia where swimming is the number one sport, right?
The floor was shaking because there was an Australian in my heat next to me who ended up getting third.
Like >> what was going on in your mind?
But again, like I truly believe had I got a medal 2004 might have been different, >> right?
So again, like I want everything to be perfect when I have that chance.
And I think having 2000, I think gave me the chance to do my trial run in 2004 to prepare for what was to come in 2008.
>> So when you when you came fifth with a paper, you came home and now you're like, >> I don't even know where that paper is.
>> Whatever that thing was, right?
If I could place a camera in your head, what was going on in your head?
Like first day when you just came back from >> Well, I knew it.
You know, like back to that story of getting back into training the day after, you know, that's something that that naturally athletes don't do coming off an Olympic games, right?
So if you miss two months, it's going to take you four months to get back to where you were.
So for me, from 2000 into 2001, I didn't miss a step, right?
I mean, I would say I probably did a 5K, over 5K.
Um, and then from that point forward, rebroke it in 2002, rebroke it in 2003, rebroke it in 2004 when I won the gold medal.
Um, it was just, did I?
Um, and I think kind of once I got that taste of success, like I was saying earlier, that was, you know, for me it was what else can I do?
How much faster can I go?
And I think that's when we started expanding and swimming different events, right?
Um, I just became super versatile and that was something that we started back early when I was working with Bob.
Why Why do you even take 4 days off then?
What can you control?
I can control not getting sick by taking care of my body, right?
So I think naturally over time I learned how to take care of my body.
>> But did you feel guilty >> on the days when you were off?
Do you feel bad?
Um because I think then after that it was like I went on a six-year stretch where I didn't miss a single day.
Um, and a lot of people say why, and I say why not, right?
There's no blueprint on how to win eight gold medals.
There's no blueprint on how to break 39 world records.
There's no blueprint on how to win 23 Olympic gold medals.
You know, he had the flu and the flu game still dropped what, 50, 40, 45.
Like there was just no excuses, right?
No matter how yesterday went, if you had a bad day yesterday, today is a different day.
You know, I'll tell before you actually go there, I'll tell you one of the most watched Michael Phelps video is a clip by me which is funny on the internet because I was researching for this this uh podcast and I I typed on YouTube the most watched Michael Fip and in that clip I'm explaining where in one interview he said that there was there was a phase in your life probably six seven years where somebody's asking you that what was the what's the reason of your success?
Why do you win?
>> Explain me what happens in those six years.
>> I mean it's it's it basically really is what can you control?
What is in your control every single day?
There are so many different little small things that you can do depending on what your goals are.
So for me, it's it's how can I be prepared every single day, right?
So like if I go back to that point, you know, after the 2000 Olympic Games, like it wasn't, you know, it was probably 2002, 2003 where I started doing ice tubs, right?
How can I how can I recover my body and my mind every single day to make sure that my body, if I'm treating it like a Ferrari and I want it to go that fast every single day, I have to recover.
I have to treat my body with with love, right?
What was what was it like?
Why would you train like like put do it in the dark, >> do it without water, do it >> I mean like there were so many different things he tried to do just to phys or just to mentally prepare us I think for things that we were going to go through or could potentially go through.
>> Tell me what's three.
>> Um I mean like he would break my goggles or step on my goggles on purpose to teach me to make sure I had a backup pair.
So, you know, I think the things that he did like breaking my goggles or um you know, like I I I've had my suit rip, right?
And and you know, during that time, if you're getting ready for an Olympic final or a world championship final and your suit rips, your emotions are going to change, right?
So, it's like um but but I think that's what it was.
um when things were uncomfortable, right?
Your eyes hurt, right?
But in that moment, you're calm because you prepared for it, right?
Uh, and it would be three different ways.
How you want or you would play three different tapes.
How you want the race to go, how you don't want the race to go, and what if, right?
And how and and and what if this happens in the race, how do you how do you adapt, how do you adjust, right?
So, it doesn't matter what happens.
And if you can handle your emotions in the most tense, pressured situations, then you're able to be the best version of you, right?
So through that process, my coach and I would always say, you know, coming to practice, that's a deposit into the bank, right?
>> Right?
What's the most psychotic thing he did?
And I had like 10 or 15 seconds before the timer went off where we were about to do the next repeat.
And naturally, when I was training, I always had to bilateral breathe.
You know, I think it's it's kind of allowed me to uh be the person who I am now and feel comfortable in my own skin.
>> Um, no, it's just it's it's the passion and again it's the frustration because >> um for us we were trying to work in hundreds of a second, right?
You know, like two of my Olympic medals were won combined by 5100s of a second, right?
But it's also being able to judge when to go all out and when not over swim a race and this that and the other.
It should have been 8 for8 in '08, but it was 8 for seven in '08.
Um, but it wouldn't have been possible without those things that I did back in the early 2000s, right?
>> You know what I really love about you and your coach partnership?
The more I read about it, I was telling you what I really love about you and your coach, you both kept each other on very high standards.
There was an incident I was reading where he didn't show up because he was sick and you texted him that why would I have a coach if I have to coach myself?
That's why I said like I was ruthless.
Um and I was like I remember that I was like why the hell am I swimming for somebody else?
Like if you're not here, why the [ __ ] am I here?
Um also to the point because I I knew it would piss him off.
M >> like there would be times where I would just say things on purpose to make him mad >> because it was fun and I just enjoyed it.
Yeah, I mean I there I I knew what to say um to get a reaction >> and that's what I wanted.
If somebody who's watching this right now, someone like me who wants to become an absolute champion in whatever they are doing, what is that visualization technique like?
What would you do?
>> I would just lay down.
It would be like, you know, like if I'm getting ready to go to practice or, you know, if I just have like 30 minutes to lay down on the couch or lay down on my bed and just visualize, it would just be >> So, what are you thinking?
So it would be like >> what's going on in your head right now?
If I'm swimming the 200 butterfly, like what does a perfect race look like?
Um hitting the wall, breaking a world record, how the race doesn't or you know Yeah.
I mean like the perfect scenario like no matter what it is, are you going in for a work pitch and you're trying to get your company to or you're trying to get another company to sign your company?
Like the you know how like the perfect video is your vision of it going perfectly how you want it to, how you dream it to be.
How you don't want it to go is you get touched out by a hundth of a second because you screwed up a wall or you misjudged a turn or you didn't have the right start or your preparation wasn't good, your warm-up wasn't good, right?
Uh, and then how the race could go would be what if I wake up and they don't like all of a sudden they don't have the same food that I've been eating every other day?
Or what if I wake up 20 minutes late?
Or what if my suit rips?
or what if my cat rips or what if I get sick, right?
If I get sick, doc, what do I need to do?"
Right?
Like we got team doctor, what do I need to do to make sure I can get out there to compete and be my best?
And it it's really just such an easy quote and a powerful quote because you can really relate it to so many things in life, right?
I was trying to break the ice, so I'm going to have a drink of water, right?
What do you need to get ready for a meeting?
You're going to go to that meeting and you're going to be like, "Ah, [ __ ] I wish I would have done that.
Right?
So, and if you don't learn from doing it that way to get ready for the next time, then what are you doing, right?
But would you play every day in your head that you're winning the perfect race?
Like >> like I'm not laying in bed tonight and being like, "Ah, what's a perfect day tomorrow?
What's like no like it's like it's more it's more just like six months before a race before a big meet like you know just kind of getting ready into that mindset because when that moment comes again like yeah world championships you get a little bit more often than the Olympic games but the Olympic games you got to wait four years you know how long four years is to to just have a chance to go compete and represent your country at the Olympic stage like it sucks it's awful but like that's what I'm saying like if you're not prepared, somebody else is.
Especially at that level, >> right?
Cuz people do obsess, right?
And winning a gold medal, it's what to have the ch Well, to win a gold medal, it's less than 1% of 1%.
>> So, but for 6 months, you would play the perfect >> perfect >> makeups, the failure every day in your head.
16, 17, 18, and then 19 or 20 depending on how many kicks I took off the last one.
I'm just going to revert back to what I do."
It would just it would it just wouldn't be good.
Why?
>> I could have gone faster.
I should have gone faster.
>> I I think I could have gone at least a half a second faster than that for sure.
>> But why would you be pissed?
Like honestly, I didn't hit the goal that I wanted, right?
The only thing I could do was what was in my control and that was try to win the race with what was at hand.
I should have been 150 point.
Should have won 150 for sure.
I thought honestly like I I truly thought I could break 150 in the 200 butterfly at some point in my career.
I think I could have gone a second and a half faster at some point in my career.
Even after breaking a world record or winning goal, you would not be happy about it.
>> But it's the goals, right?
Like didn't matter what everybody else was saying or doing.
the the mo like the one person who put the most amount of pressure on me was me because it is in my control, right?
which is your 2008 Beijing where you won eight gold medals.
There's never been an athlete in the world till now who has ever gone that far and have won so many medals.
What was what was that phase like that alien phase where everything you touch you would turn it into gold?
Um, >> what did you feel like?
Like I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me, that could beat me.
Um, you know, everyone says it's like that 10,000 hour mark, right?
It's right like, you know, if you go out and buy a piece of property and you want to build a house, you can't snap the fingers, right?
And that's what I did one day at a time leading up to that point.
Um, because I knew how hard it was going to be to win seven, let alone eight.
>> What was different about that phase?
I mean, coming off of 2004, obviously, you know, it was my first gold medal, right?
And I'm like, like, what are you talking about?
Like that for me is motivation, >> right?
like everything I did during that time, you know, truly was about trying to be as perfect as I could.
Um, but again, like I I was competing against somebody who is pretty much fresh every single time, right?
>> Yeah, that was like insane, right?
Um where typically they're in the afternoon or night time.
Um >> you slept did you sleep the whole day like on 15th when you got got an off between those events?
>> Uh no, like during an off day I would wake up normal time.
Uh I would I would stay on that schedule, that routine.
I would wake up and I would have like a morning like a splash and I literally would do 800 to a,000.
Um, and I would just go and just kind of feel just feel how I was feeling, see if I needed to get a little massage or whatever.
And by the time the afternoon came, we we always have a team meeting before we would go over to the final session.
>> Did you ever feel like taking it off in that alien phase?
>> Taking off?
I'm sure there must have been at least one day where you must be >> I mean, yeah, but I think the goals that I had were were too big.
They were big enough where I couldn't take a day off.
>> What did you tell yourself on the day when you were feeling sick and you didn't want to get out of bed?
>> I mean, for me, like when I when I would get out of bed, the first things I see are my goal sheets.
They're on my bedside table because I, you know, for me, I want to know why I'm waking up.
What is the purpose of that day?
Yeah, I might feel like [ __ ] but if I can get 10%, if I can get 20%, if I can get 50% out of that day, then isn't that better than getting zero?
>> You know, like as long as you're not taking a step backwards cuz if you are, try to flip that car around and go a different direction, right?
>> So, what does a goal sheet of an of a world champion looks like?
I mean, for me it was they were bro all of my times were broken down into 50s, right?
>> Every day you would have this.
>> Well, I just see like I see so I would have short-term goals and long-term goals.
Long-term goals are what times do I want to swim at the Olympic Games or World Championships?
Um, and then yeah, it's just I mean, and then I basically I I I wrote I I would write down basically 100 200 free.
He would always make me do the mile at least once a year.
And it all came what I was doing.
It all came from what I was doing every single day, right?
Right?
Why?
>> What's the def what's the definition of insanity?
That's why I was able to have the success that I did.
>> Was it all about competing yourself, the old version of you, or was it about competing with other people who would come as your competition in the Olympics game?
Were you competing about against yourself or others?
That's how that's how my time or that's how my sport was defined by a time.
How fast can you go?
And again, like I was saying, if the times that I dreamt of and I believe that I could go were faster than the world record or faster than what other people believed, if I did those times, guess what would happen?
>> Why would you say that?
You would study on them.
>> I mean, I knew how they would swim their races.
It's easy, right?
Like I I feel like >> like would you study your competitors the way they would do style?
What would you study about them?
>> Well, I mean like I I always I learn things from them, right?
Um you know I took a lot of core exercises from different countries that I would see on the pool deck.
Um but like Lochi like I mean I swam against Lochi for 15 years 10 or 15 years, right?
You just thought I mean cuz it's like >> you could you yourself can only do so much right?
Why would you do that?
Um because it it's kind of like the same story back to my teacher, right?
>> And if a fellow competitor and a friend of mine is telling uh excuse me, if a friend of mine and a competitor of mine is telling reporters that it's not possible to win eight gold medals, guess what?
Um, he he sent me a text uh right after and I was giving him [ __ ] for it and he was like, "Dude," he's like, "I know how your mind works.
Like you you made that choice, right?
Right?
Right?
Right?
what you do every single day, how you show up, when you show up, it matters and it's gonna matter at the most important time, right?
>> Would you ever imagine yourself losing a race?
>> Uh would you ever visualize?
>> Yeah, why not?
>> What if I lost?
>> Do you do that?
>> And >> what if I get second by 100th of a second instead of winning by 100th of a second?
But the only way I can change that is controlling what I do every day.
>> So maybe I have to prepare better, right?
>> And was there any >> Well, I think I think to I think to better answer that, like I remember my losses more than I remember my victories because the feeling of defeat >> I never wanted to have again, right?
Because it feels like [ __ ] when you lose.
It feels like [ __ ] when you fail.
It's not It doesn't feel fun, right?
What's about losing that you hate so much?
Um, no, honestly, I think that's what it is.
But I'm not going to show up unprepared, right?
Like it's just it's not who I am.
Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors which you secretly would use?
>> And not share it with anyone?
I don't know when that came in.
I've done that my whole life, you know?
So, it's just a part of what I needed to do in order to get as prepared as I can be.
And if what I'm doing is messing up them, it's not my problem.
It's not my fault, right?
I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing on what I need in that moment.
I could care why why would I care about them, right?
I don't care what they're doing.
When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full-blown war.
>> Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor?
Feared?
Even your head, you would not be like, "Maybe this new guy or somebody's better than me or someone's going to beat me."
>> If I was prepared, why would it matter?
I didn't care who you were.
How did you feel?
>> First time ever in 2004. because that's what you ever that's what you wanted, right?
Um, so I think that was the first time for me where I learned that um I couldn't get caught up in that one moment even though it was special, right?
What's next?
Um, just trying to break it all down, right?
Because I think that at times there's there's still that like that thought you're like was that a dream or did that really happen?
Right?
I can't I could not do it.
I couldn't because I couldn't I I I had to I had to make sure that like in that moment I had to make sure that I was getting the right recovery, right?
Like if I was finished for the night and I had warmed down already, then I'm like, "All right, am I getting back on the massage table and then right into the cold tub to then go back and eat?
Am I eating first?
What am I doing?
Is there food here?
Do I have to eat a power bar or something like that now?
I mean like even in 2012, right?
Uh where I got fourth.
Um and that was the very very first day of the Olympics, right?
So, now, how do you redirect yourself and your energy to make sure that doesn't affect the rest of the meat?
>> What about the time when you won all eight gold medals after that?
Did you not enjoy that as well?
>> So, did you enjoy that feeling a lot?
And that's when I kind of like stiff armed the sport a little bit and just wanted to be me.
would it have been cool to go and like party with your friends or go on a road trip for the weekend?
But isn't it really cool winning 23 Olympic gold medals, too, you know?
So, like for me, like it was almost like I have this opportunity to do something really special and uh I'm going to have that same opportunity to do whatever they're doing right now in 15 years, right?
You know what's funny?
I don't even know how many how many silver and and bronze I have.
>> You're second, right?
>> So in 2012 when the bad phase started and you won four gold medals in the Olympics and you were sad about it.
And like I think for me I think that's what that's when I really kind of stiff armed the sport so you will um because all I had done was swim swim and I think at that point I was like what else do I need to do?
If I win that race, I probably don't come back in 16, >> right?
I did the best I could with not doing much work.
>> And you still ended up with four gold?
>> You gave what you had.
>> But >> I was probably only at >> But here's what I don't understand.
But you say that only 2016 where you've given 100%.
No, >> I could have That's what I'm saying.
Yeah, I was pissed even though I broke the world record and won the gold medal because I knew I could have gone faster.
Like that's what I'm saying.
Um cuz we we I could have I should have won eight but our morning relay got DQed.
Um but we did whatever we could and and yeah, it ended up working out.
But yeah, it could have it could have been better.
What was going on in your head in 2016?
I don't remember hearing that but >> like somewhere there was like he said he there was a news about it, right?
I didn't care really what anybody said, what anybody did, if anybody got in my way.
Um and I I remember seeing Chad uh Shadow Box and I was like, "What are you doing?"
So, I was like, man, they're going to have a field day with the reaction and the facial expressions that I had because, right, I I don't really hide my emotions well, right?
Like, it's just how I am.
and and um yeah, I think the the the best photo for me coming from those games or one of the best photos was him looking like this during the race as I'm a half a body length ahead of him >> and I end up winning the gold medal, right?
So, I think that's a lesson within itself, right?
Focus on you and what you're trying to do, not what others are doing.
Focus on what you got to do.
How did you know that you won it?
Like in in 2008 when I did take that half stroke.
Um but I hit it at the right spot, right?
>> So, you were so focused on yourself, you didn't care about anyone else, but what in your body knew that >> you won?
>> I mean, the very first thing that I do when I finish is snap, turn, and look at the board.
>> I know where my lane is.
I know where my name where my name is.
Like I mean like most like there are some races where I'll win by a body length or two body lengths.
So, when I'm in the race, you don't think, you just be.
That is it.
And what goes on in your head when you're on the podium?
When I'm on the block.
And I mean, like you can tell people who are nervous being in the ready room rims, too.
Like that's why I always have my headset on.
>> And you you would listen to Till I Collapse.
>> Before you would get out.
Okay?
And they could just pick up three specific principles or habits or rituals or mindset from you.
What would that be?
Like what would that be?
I mean, I think one of the things that I really live by is dream, plan, reach, right?
And if you don't have a plan that goes along with that dream, then you're going to be lost, right?
Look, like, was I afraid to drop all of my other sports and just focus on swimming?
But I also was able to learn that it was the best decision for me, right?
Like I found something that I love, I enjoyed, and that I was pretty good at, you know?
So, I think it's really just keeping it as simple as you possibly can, right?
Like what is your goal?
And figure out the smallest little details that you need to get to get there, to reach to to just have a chance to get there, right?
I think that's the biggest thing is is people want a chance to do something, but if you're not doing the things that it takes to give yourself a chance, then all it is is words, right?
Um, I think it's just what you do.
Um, but again, it's it's it's what can you do right now.
Right?
That's what pushed me.
Like how can I give my kids the best chance to succeed in this world?
What does that look like?
I don't have the answers, but I'm trying to figure it out, right?
Whether that's in the pool, whether it's in a classroom, I don't care, right?
So, it's what do you do every single day?
What are your daily habits and what are your daily routines that prove that you are trying to be successful and you are trying to be great?
And you're like, "Well, what have you been doing?"
Right?
But I went in and I got done and I was like like I I feel different, right?
Like you feel different when when you set your mind to something.
Right?
Because for me, for 25 years of my life, I swam damn near every day, right?
So, that's what I have to do now.
I have to get in there for an hour, hour and a half plus, no matter what.
No matter how I feel, tomorrow I'm going to be sore as hell from the weights today.
But, you know what?
I am going to get stronger, right?
For me, throughout my career, I would do different habits.
It's a part of who you are, right?
I mean, I guess the easiest way to say things is simplify it, right?
>> But what now?
Doesn't it feel empty because there's nothing to look forward to?
What are you looking forward to now?
Um you know for me as somebody who has thought about suicide multiple times um >> what got you out of it?
>> What's that >> what got you >> what brought me out of it?
Um, but you know, I think over the last 10 years, I've learned that it's okay not to be okay, right?
Like it's okay to have a hard day, but what did I learn from it?
How can I try to be better?
How can I try to not have it affect the whole entire day?
Who can I talk to?
Who can I go see?
What can I learn more?
Right?
And who knew that just talking about things would make you happy and make you freer and just be your normal self?
Um, yeah, it's it's there's no timetable, right?
Do you do you buy what he was saying?
Cuz I >> Do you think it won't affect people if they're like just busy working day in and day out?
So, um, for me, like when I go through depression, it feels like the room is shrinking on top of me.
But I think for me, it's when I do have those moments, I'm lucky that I have the tools that I have to help me get out of them.
Um, you know, I get I get anxiety when I have to go and speak in front of 2,000 people, right?
It's not possible, right?
They're a part of who I am.
They challenge me to learn more about me and how I work.
Um but again, that's what makes me who I am.
You know, I don't see what I used to see.
It's you know it's again that's why I always say it's not rocket science.
>> If you had to give a name to your mindset, what would it be?
It's just, you know, it's I I But, you know, like when you say something like that that I I I don't know if I can take credit for all of my stuff, right?
because you know what we were talking about uh knowing your competitors.
Right?
Um, but I enjoy having like really fun conversations with people and and you know, for me, I'm still looking for, you know, different ways that I can change my routine to better myself, right, from from any conversation that I have, right?
Whether it's a retired basketball player, football player, baseball player, politician, it doesn't matter, right?
Like I do it because right like that's what we're all here to do.
We're here to help each other, right?
And try to help each other be great, right?
Like I swam my ass off in the pool for 20 years, but like it wasn't all me, right?
>> How are you?
And at the same time, please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast.
