Of course, it's for Indians and Pakistanis who can converse in English, who can understand English.
So should we dive straight in?
The response to the attack has been what we call operation Sindur today.
Uh I think the world has somewhat of an idea of what operation sindur is sir.
Look, it should be very clear that Pakistan has had a policy of state support of terrorism, state sponsored terrorism.
So that is what operation zindur is.
We still don't have all the details of how this was this was carried out.
So that's the that's what uh operation is thus far.
Um to give some context to the global audience I would like to begin by saying Osama bin Laden was also found to be hiding in Pakistan.
That's why he was neutralized.
But the truth is we had the defense minister saying what he said publicly.
Can we briefly try understanding Jammu and Kashmir's context?
Uh could we explain it for the world and why it's actually led to the situation we find ourselves in?
So what's the genesis, the origin of this entire matter?
Why are Indian fighting, Pakistan fighting?
India and and Pakistan were created out of what used to be one unified entity.
So which is why the Pakistan got a tremendous amount of western support and funding and whatnot.
Right?
U so that's the genesis of the issue that's why Kashmir as the west would say is disputed territory.
But what you are taught in the west is that these are two nations uh that came into existence in 1947 which never existed before.
We've seen how innocent people have been targeted.
Uh if not by Pakistan, then by who?
They have a prime minister who is essentially a puppet.
A bunch of generals and a bunch of spook spies who run the country and to legitimize their their hold over the country.
Uh where India essentially would like to be left alone.
Why don't you leave us alone?
And that's what justifies their terrorism.
Uh so we know how to deal with Pakistan now.
Before we move into chapter 2, sir, I would love for you to share some current context with the global audience.
Uh what's the context to be given to global audiences?
I am not sure how much of this is true.
So the question is what kind of retaliation can happen.
So then we move a step up the escalation ladder and then yeah that that phase that hot phase could could last for a while.
If that happens, you could see a significant escalation, a significant response from India this time.
So that's what could happen.
and then it's up to us how to retaliate.
Gur six were killed who are um could be understood to be sort of religious figures in the world of six.
So this is the truth of what is happening right now.
I would also love for you to begin this chapter by giving the Pakistani perspective on what the ISI is.
You want to collect information about what's out there in the world.
So that's what that's one way of doing it.
That's what intelligence agencies typically do and the interervices intelligence the ISI is Pakistan's intelligence branch.
It is it is one of their lines of defense.
Pakistan, the furthest part of Pakistan would be a couple of hundred kilometers at most from India.
The bunch of generals who are at the top of the military and the top ISI people who typically are interchangeable.
You could say it's the same entity but it it shows different faces.
Uh the one terrorist who survived the Mumbai terror attack uh was Ajal Kasab.
Yes, I've had lots of people on the podcast who have actually met Ajal Kasab and everyone said that he was completely brainwashed.
That is what the globe knows as the nucleus of terrorism.
That is what terrorism is.
But it's the Pakistani people who are fed a different kind of narrative.
You end up meeting them when you go to UAE, when you go to Katar, you meet them all all over the place.
Uh this is the first time in my own adult life that I'm seeing a situation where 99% of Indians don't want peace at this point.
That's just what pattern recognition has taught us.
The first response of most Pakistanis on social media is, "Hey, where's the proof when it comes to the Pelgam attack?
How do you know that these guys came out of Pakistan?"
How do you respond in a situation like this?
What bigger proof do you need than Bilawal BH coming on on Western media on Western TV and saying that Pakistan has been doing the dirty work for the Americans and the West for decades.
What bigger proof do you need than the Pakistani defense minister repeatedly saying on Western media that Pakistan has had this track record of terrorism and our hands are dirty.
If if the West had not made us do this, we we would have been our record would have been spotless.
I think we are way past the stage where we have to furnish proof.
When the Americans wiped wiped Iraq flat, when they flattened entire cities with millions of people, did they first pause to give the world proof that the that there are WMDs or whatever?
When they launched their war on terror, when George Bush la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la la launches war on terror on the world, he gave everybody a choice.
But when it comes to us, we have to furnish proof.
We know where our uh enemy is.
We know where our where the threat to threat to our people lies and we are no longer going to give proof.
He he you could call him a dictator a benevolent dictator and so on.
It's it's our they are our saviors who are keeping who are safeguarding us from the evil neighbor next door.
That is what is causing the rich Pakistanis to settle in the UK, in Europe, um in Dubai.
Does it matter who's in power in Pakistan?
It doesn't matter who's in power.
This is what the globe doesn't know.
That is not how flourishing countries operate.
Well, that's typically how you fall out of power in Pakistan.
You have to remember remember where the real power lies.
I did this one episode with Susan Sarin who's a geopolitical analyst, studied Pakistan his whole life.
What he basically said is that the people in power are in charge of policies, but if any of the policies are not in accordance with what the army wants, that's when you're in trouble.
And yeah, I wonder how this kind of content doesn't reach educated Pakistanis or it does and they just choose to look past it.
I suppose okay I think we should move on to the next chapter.
Uh let's kind of put a global lens on this situation considering the possibility that u this conflict escalates what impact will it have on global economies perhaps beginning with both the Indian and Pakistan economy?
So it could be a significant destabilizing factor.
They lose their legitimacy in the eyes of the people uh of Pakistan and then there's going to be riots in the streets because people will say that what are you doing?
You you're not doing what you're supposed to do.
Let's see how they escalate.
U I think they could es escalate uh asymmetrically.
If the conflict escalates who does it benefit?
If the Americans if Trump had not imposed tariffs on his allies, it would have been a whole different situation.
But because he has done it to his own allies, that's why the Chinese seem to have the upper hand in that matter.
So I think we're going to see a new China Pakistan access kind of phase and the India China friendship which may have possibly happened I think that's t now what does it mean for America?
What it means for America is that China gets what they have rejected.
So that only happens when the when your master has has served you with divorce papers.
U the Americans would want India to be stable.
The US wants to isolate China and you and if you want to isolate China, you need to prop somebody up who who could become a counterweight.
But sometimes you have no choice when you have a neighbor like China right next door.
The US would want Apple and whatever other Microsoft, Nvidia, etc.
whoever it is to set up manufacturing in India to replace what they have in China.
I want to draw out a hypothetical scenario for you and please tell me what you think about this.
In the long drawn trajectory of this conflict, I think there will be a day where the Pakistani military is nearing its own extinction.
Would they be tempted to use nukes at that point?
Does it make sense to lob nukes at your neighbor when destruction is guaranteed?
But then the question arises that what happens to the nukes because they are still on Pakistani soil.
And that's where we don't know what happens.
We don't know what happens.
Will the Chinese step in and take them?
Will the Americans step in and take them?
Or will we be able to step in and and secure the nukes?
Uh so that's why Pakistan is so dangerous and that that's the dilemma that we face as to what happens there.
Uh I think most of the globe understands what is happening in the countries because of Pakistan's history with respect to terrorism.
That's what he said.
Um but you can't deny what the world has seen over the last two decades.
Uh she also said that would you be willing to take journalists to the site of the attacks and confirm that children and families are actually targeted by the Indian military?
That's why I'm bringing up the question, right?
Well, I'm sure most terrorists think that they're on the right side, right?
Uh how is the average Pakistani not digesting the truth about the ethics of what's going on?
What is the definition of terrorism?
And that is exactly what Pakistan has been doing for decades now.
And I would say most of them would have many of them at least would have celebrated that we inflicted this this pain on India.
So I think a significant majority of the Pakistani population would be okay with terrorism or any other means.
And I don't think we are in a we are in a situation where we have to prove that Pakistan is being doing this.
And from an ethics perspective, when you have an evil nation that is constantly bleeding you, you have the right to self-defense.
That's what I would say.
Were they forced to leave India?
Did the Hindus force them to leave India?
When Turkey became independent in the 1920s, there was this forced uh expulsion of Christians and and non-Muslims out of Turkey.
It's the Pakistanis who have hate.
If you look at the fate of their non-Muslim population since 1947, look at what's happened.
uh I think when you build an entire nation on the concept of religion it does lead to problems in the long term.
