Give me three examples of businesses
which are going to benefit from the
rapid adoption of AI. So software
development, healthcare, financial
consulting. What is the most ridiculous
search query you have read? Either this
person is trying to rob a bank. Ended up
asking I want my face protected. I still
want to be able to breathe but it should
cover my nose and holes for my eyes and
I want to like bike. Explain me how does
the answer comes in. A lot of it just
has to do with like filtering out like
really lowquality domains and then like
there are subtle things you can do based
on the region, based on the users's past
queries, based on the current query
itself. You can rerank the final set of
like links. You're in a sort of
competition and race with all these
large companies. Who loses the most if
you win? The one with the most to lose
is Google. What would be Google be like?
Google employees and their kids, they
all use Perplexity because it's a better
product. Our today's guest is Aravvin
Sri Navas who's a founder of perplexity.
He has raised millions of dollars which
has gotten funded by Nvidia's founder
and Jeff Bezos as well. We learn how AI
actually works and what's the future of
AI and what's the craziest conspiracy
you have heard about AI? AI god like
thing that you can use to control the
whole universe. But do you think that's
possible?
Do you see any potential political
threats coming on
Perplexity? I think Elon raised $6
billion forex. Are you scared of Elon?
podcaster
Spotify enjoy the
show when you think about India or just
like let's say world and you want to
compete and you want to be the best you
want to be number one
why keep name as perplexity it's so
difficult to say like I was talking to
so many people in the organization
because I use perplexity
And there are two three people who use
PEX and then when we spoke to everyone
that hey you know what we're going to
get the founder we'll do this and
they're like it's such a difficult name
we'll never going to be able to even
download it and use it. Sure. And it's a
it's an important question. Yeah. So uh
this goes back to the origins of the
company like you know when I started I
didn't really have a clear sense of like
you know whether we'll build a search
app or consumer
application none of that like we were we
knew we wanted to do something in search
we knew like we wanted to build like
unique experiences that were not
possible before we're not dreaming big
like oh we're going to build a billion
user product potentially. Um, so, um,
when when you pick a name for the
company, you pick something pretty cool
like and and easy to get a domain for,
you know, I I didn't have much money at
the beginning, no funding. So, uh,
perplexity.ai was available for like
$120 for 2 years, so I just got it. Um,
and um, perplexity is a metric in AI
that measures how well you understand
something. Okay. So, very geeky, you
know, I I get it. And once you get even
more users and more funding like we can
just buy the rights to some crazy name
and like just do something like four or
five letters that would be amazing. Mhm.
Interesting. Okay. So they there is plan
to actually change it. This is a problem
you're aware about. Yeah. Yeah. I mean
look I'm it's one of the worst names you
can pick for a consumer company. 100%
aware of it and I'm not going to defend
the maybe we can do something like the
comp the company will still be called
Perplexity but the product can be called
something else. Yeah. Fair. I was
looking at the list of your investors.
Jeff Bezos happens to be one of them.
Yeah. And he came much later like he's
not the earliest investor. Okay. But did
you meet Jeff? Yeah. Yeah, I did meet
Jeff. How did that happen? uh how did
you go from being this guy who doesn't
know much about this business genius and
how this model will make sense
to getting a Jeff Bezos the Jeff Bezos
investing in you. So we reached out uh
through like a common contact like uh
and then um um you know they responded
saying okay like why don't you uh send
like a you know like a document like a
memo he he likes to read memos and so I
I sent that and I also made like a nice
demo where uh it's an imaginary demo of
like Jeff talking to our our voice to
voice system where his voice is talking
to it and that system is responding back
and and the questions are about like
Star Trek and Blue Origin and things
like that and I I I recorded it myself
and then um sent it over both the memo
and this and um he for the first
investment he didn't even meet me. They
just said, "Okay, I'll just seen the
memo and looked at the demo and um he's
approved the investment." So, okay,
fine. That's awesome. And then we asked
for permission to use his name in the
public release of the funding round.
They said, "Yeah, go for it." and that
became the headline essentially. So that
that really helped us like so thanks to
him. Um subsequent after that like when
we kept making more progress he reached
that was the first inbound request like
hey uh Jeff wants to meet and like you
know get a update on the company and
like your strategy and again they asked
me to write a six pager I wrote it but
that's a really good exercise uh writing
these memos and six pages uh it takes a
lot out of you to write one but it's
totally worth it for your clarity and he
explains why too right it So, I've
written it and then had the one-on-one
meeting. It was for an hour. Um, I
thought he's not going to he he he
certainly wouldn't have had time to read
it. Yeah. So, he's just going to use the
first 30 minutes to uh read it together,
but no, like he just directly got to the
points. He referenced specific sections,
what he liked and what he was not sure
about. Uh, asked me for things like what
I think about like the chip space and
stuff. Um, and no time was wasted. It's
it was like basically getting to the
second meeting, you know. Uh, and at the
end like he just said something of like
your your success doesn't rely on
Google's failure, which is why like, you
know, I'm pretty optimistic about your
chances. And, uh, you just got to keep
moving fast. And of course, the only
thing that matters is customer
experience. Like just retain the users.
Don't be a leaky bucket. Make sure
retention is high. Don't everyone's
going to like just push you for getting
as many users as you can but maintain
your growth rates. Don't try to aim for
like something crazy. Uh but absolutely
make sure that as you grow your
retention is like only increasing not
even staying flat. So he had all the
right messages. I mean we we knew it but
it was always great to you know have it
reinforced by someone like him. And then
I met him in person in another event
later. So he the three I met him like
totally like two or three times. He's
he's pretty awesome. A lot of people
think he's like not very plugged in
anymore, but um I would say he's like
literally was up to date with everything
when I met him. What do you think is the
reason why did he invest in you? I I
mean look I I really don't know. He
probably What do you think? I know that
you don't know. I mean he knows it
better, but what do you think? Why did
he I'm guessing he probably tried out
the product and like like you know it
worked as expected and I thought like it
you know it's but he must be getting
thousand products which are living up to
the expectation and working as described
or explained by you. Well, uh we had a
lot of visibility already by then a lot
of people using it. Um and
um there were very few products in the
market at the time also like chat GPT
was there but it wasn't even doing
browsing reliably and you know Google
bar it was called Bard back then wasn't
even called Gemini and wasn't really
like good. Microsoft copilot wasn't
good. Bing chat wasn't good. So we
actually had a pretty good time to um
like attract a lot of users where like
our service is basically not uh possible
anywhere else. So that that
differentiator was clear there. It was
not like one among another product. Um
and the other thing he probably my guess
is um the existing set of investors were
already pretty incredible. Uh the team
was shipping really fast. I I think
these are good attributes for a startup
and we were very efficient in the way we
got to where we were like before we
raised that round. We had raised very
little money. Uh and we did not spend it
on like you know like training our own
models but just continually investing in
a good product. We had a core thesis
that like your model is not my concern
like for the user. Uh and I think that
appealed to him because it was literally
a play on his uh your profitability is
not my concern. Yeah. You get the
package in a day. I don't care what it
costs you to do that. So I think like it
was a customer focused AI company. Maybe
he wanted to be part of the journey. Got
it. And he probably liked the way you
were thinking about it way more than
probably any other thing. I really don't
know. I'm also making a guess asking
you. Maybe that demo was pretty cool
like the I'm trying to prompt so that
you give me an answer which is beyond
just your product. It's very I've never
asked. Maybe next time I meet I'm just
going to ask him like hey like why did
you invest? Because honestly it's
um like you could argue like it's it's
going to create conflict at some point
like you know Amazon Alexa is also going
to be in in the operating in the space
and uh so maybe there's some deeper
reason or maybe it's not that deep. I
don't know. Yeah, because it's usually
when someone of that stature actually
takes up personal time to a invest and
then meet the founders, it has to be
something deeper because I hope so.
Couple of millions of dollars for him is
going to like it's peanuts. It's not
going to mean anything. Yeah, it's not.
So he doesn't like it doesn't mean
anything to him. kind of again look like
if we become really big
um you know even then I think the the
the valuation which he came in and the
amount he put in like it'll move the
needle for him a bit financially but
it's not it's not for that reason that's
like a lot of other ways for him to do
that exactly exactly and what what do
you think makes him special why is he
the number one why is he one of the
biggest founders in the world because
you met him did you notice or observe
anything different that makes him a star
founder? I think he has incredible
clarity of thought. Uh like the thing I
said like you know there there there
some of the wisdom that he gave is
timeless. The your margin is my
opportunity thing is timeless like it
keeps on coming. It is the it is the
core uh truth to like most disruption
stories where uh someone else has to
protect their margin and they're on an
innovative dilemma situation and like
someone else eats the lunch with a
better technology
u and and like he has all these
frameworks right like repeatable
frameworks like one oneway door two-way
door decisions where should you spend
your mind mental compute on um and a
shareholder letter is like a masterclass
in good writing. So my uh the reason I
really respect him is when you try to
scale a company uh you have to kind of
have u some version of you or your
thought process in every meeting
otherwise because it's physically and
like impossible for you to be in every
meeting and like driving decisions
everywhere. So you have to be able to
write down how you think and how you
make decisions which is very going a
step further. It's not just about making
good decisions. It's
about writing down your decision making
framework so that others can think in a
way as clear as you. Yeah. That requires
even higher order clarity. And he did it
at Amazon and um and I scaled the
company a lot and built like many
businesses simultaneously.
Uh and I think that I'm I'm definitely
not at that level. I cannot do that
right now. Uh and I don't think many
CEOs are like that good either. True. Uh
so uh that that that is a very unique
Bezos thing like he he totally nailed
the like shareholder letters and like
decision-m frameworks and like how to
understand the markets. Even recently uh
in an interview with Sarkin he said this
thing that was like very profound which
is like you know uh we are uh we usually
overestimate risk and underestimate
opportunity almost all of us and a
corollary of that is like we don't take
enough risk like we are all like
uh we don't we don't like like there's a
reason why most humans are not
risk-seeking animals and another thing
he said in the Lex Friedman interview
was very cool like you know We we all
talk about truth seeeking, but there's a
reason that it's not easy is because by
by by
nature human beings are not truth
seeeking animals. We are social animals.
We like validation. We like like other
people saying we're good or like what
we're saying is correct. We don't care
if like what we're saying is actually
correct by by nature. You actually have
to rewire yourself for that. And that
any rewiring process is painful. So I I
think like that clarity of thought is
what is making makes him pretty
singular. I am a big Jeff Basos fan.
Like it's in my list of entrepreneurs in
the world. He comes at the top. Like
he's the number one because obviously
all of these frameworks and the things
that he has done. Yeah. I think it makes
ton of sense and I can go on and on him
because I've read so many things and
I've like used so many of his frameworks
to make decisions in my day-to-day life.
All the dumb decisions that I've made in
my life which have actually turned out
to be good was because of this one
regret minimization framework that I've
heard from him. It's so good. Like
regret minimization framework. Oh my
god. And that has made me do dumb things
in my life. But in most cases it has
been a pretty lovely one. Yeah. I mean
that's one of the main reasons I I I was
so um um I was having a lot of urgency
to start the company because I I knew
that um well I had I had some so my own
reasoning too which is I knew that my
cognitive abilities are on a decline.
You have to accept that. Yeah. Um how
old are you? I'm 30 but I I I I know
that I'm on a decline. I I can try to
fight it, but I I can clearly see the
kind of insane things I could do when I
studied for J or uh when I was at IIA,
you know, cramming last minute before
the exam. I could download like 10
lectures in my head in the last 3 hours.
I can't do all those things anymore.
Um so I wanted to do it as soon as I
can. And the regret minimization
framework was also clearly there which
is look it's only going to get harder to
start a company because of both your
abilities and other constraints in your
life that come.
So you're the regret's going to go up
and your abilities are going to go down.
So you better like start now. Yeah. But
okay explain me how does the answer
comes in. So moment I talk I type
something in perplexity and I type the
question. Yeah. Does it show based on my
interest and what I would be interested
in or does it show based on some level
of merit like what is the way that you
show me because as far as I understand
about Google it depends a lot on the
location I'm in my past history what
kind of things I'm interested in then
Google shows me some lot set of those
things and maybe like keywords and stuff
like that but a lot depends on two
individual people we have tried this
multiple times two people from the same
location searching the same thing
probably shows like three four top
things right so I think in in the case
of Google the reason you see different
results um might not even be
personalization mhm um Google runs AB
tests a lot um ranking algorithm AB test
um UI AB tests u number of ads on on the
query there's a lot of other things that
end up making the result pretty
different per user the biggest level of
personalization you can make is
um location actually that that gives you
most of the heavy lifting in terms of
personalization. So the what we do when
you ask a query is you we pull up
relevant results uh from an index we
have we look at ranking signals that we
can get from many different search
engines. We pull them all together in a
with a proprietary algorithm and then we
let the model like read all those
retrieved links uh pull relevant
paragraphs use that to write a
synthesize an answer and pull the final
citations and allow you to keep
conversing by keeping things in context.
Keeping the past sources, past answer,
past query in context. As it grows, it
gets more challenging and we do all this
like pretty minimal latency that makes a
product feel fast yet pretty useful. M
so the hard part is actually the
orchestration. Uh you can do a lot in
what links you retrieve in the first
stage that can make the answer quality
really really good without even
improving the model. Um a lot of it just
has to do with like filtering out like
really low quality domains that gives
you a lot of heavy lifting to like
quality improvements. Um and then like
there are subtle things you can do based
on the region um based on the user's
past queries based on the current query
itself. You can rerank the final set of
like links. Um and we do all that. Uh
but we've generally seen that like
location gener like are are like big
predictors of what final set of links
that you need to retrieve and any more
personalization can improve the quality
a bit but uh most users or most queries
are not going to see the differences. So
if you and me type the same problem here
together are there chances that we'll
see the same answer? most likely you
will unless by the way as products and
companies get bigger u a lot of AB tests
are run um pretty much every day uh
because that's the only way to improve
the product so if you see different
answers it either means like different
models were used for that or like um the
query like reformulated the ones that
are taking your original query and
changing it a bit uh those models were
different uh or like the ranking
algorithms were different you
Literally for bad query if you get
different answers the only reason has to
be like AB tests and you cannot do
anything about it like every product has
to do this because the only way to
iterate to improve is run AB tests on
hold out sets and and see if like the
retention was higher or like number of
queries so that user ended up going up
or there were more follow-ups to that
question that were like relevant but not
like recclarifying the original query so
that means the original answer was
correct. We we we collect a lot of
signals like this. Um and so
um my hope is that even if you see a
different answer like it ends up
conveying the same thing rather than uh
one answer is like completely
contradictory to the other. Got it. So
now do you get in investor meetings now
that you have some such start investors
you have bunch of capital now capital is
never enough though but you have capital
and you have good investors. Yeah.
Right. You're a soft bank as well. You
have a soft bank, Stanley Draen Miller,
a bunch of really great people. Like
bunch of great people right now. Do you
go into your board meetings or investor
meetings and be like, "Hey, you know
what? I'm going to beat Google." No, we
we don't talk about how to beat Google.
Um I think we just talk about how to
grow Perplexity. This very being very
honest with you. like um I think the
Google positioning is very interesting
mainly because like there's a reason
they cannot ship the same product to
billion users yet uh because of the
invader dilemon situation. So it's very
interesting. Uh but they're also very
clear right about that and they're
building Gemini and they're trying to
like make it as you know at least like
oh if there is a an app that truly kills
Google it better we we also own one of
it right my hope is that in the next
generation of search where we're all
going to converse and ask questions on
voice and get tasks done. I hope there
are multiple players there and Google
will certainly be one of them. There's
no question about it. and OpenAI will be
one of them. We hope to be one of them.
MetaB is likely to be one of them.
XAI. So, I'm I'm hoping like there are a
lot of players here and u it's a much
more
um I still think there'll be a winner
with a dominant market share, but I hope
it's like um it's not like a
90% winner and like 10% rest and and
that can be avoided if you're like
having enough capital to compete and
like innovative on like features you're
shipping and figure out like new
business models outside subscriptions,
uh new ways for commerce must happen
here. You have to do all that work.
There's a lot of nonAI work to be done
here. And um so we talk a lot about
those kind of things in board meetings
rather than like oh how can I get
everyone's like
uh you know single word searches that
are happening on Google on perplexity.
That's impossible. I'm not going to get
it unless like I literally displays your
browser your operating system everything
right like that. That's not worth
thinking about. Rather it's worth
thinking about like okay there are some
kind of searches that clearly people are
coming to perplexity for not going to
Google what how to grow that those kind
of searches which is actually new right
we were not earlier at least me we were
I was not going to Google like type in
like a full quest than ever
so that's a new ability that people some
people are not even aware they can do
and that that'll grow and um I think
that market how to monetize that how to
grow that how to like bring it to more
verticals, how to get in front of more
users, that's where it's really worth
focusing energy on. Okay. Compare for a
layman like me and for all the viewers
who are watching. Compare Google with
Perpacity for me. What are the
weaknesses which Google has? Yeah. And
those are the weaknesses or the gaps
that you guys have seen and you're
solving it for it. Yeah. So the median
number of words on a Google search is
like two to three words. I think 2.3
words maybe. The median number of words
on a perplexity search is like 10 words.
So um people on Google like if you
actually go to
trends.google.com and and look at the
top one not the rising ones the top ones
are always like single word searches.
Amazon, Instagram, Reddit, Tik Tok. Mhm.
Weather score cricket you know it's like
single word searches. Um and that tells
you what people are mostly doing.
They're just navigating the web. You
know, sometimes they ask like very quick
fa fast facts like such in Tanuker age
or something. You know, you just quickly
get it right there. But you're not
asking questions like oh like uh what
how many times has Tendulkar uh scored a
um 100 and India has lost the match.
You're probably not going to get it
quickly on Google. It'll give you a
bunch of links. You'll have to open
them. You have to read and parse and
figure out. You can ask those kind of
questions on perplexity. You can ask
such nooker age also on perplexity but
there's going to be some overlap in the
searches that we can share but there are
just going to be some searches that are
clearly better done on Google which is
the quick fast navigation and there are
going to be some searches that are
better done on perplexity which is
actual answers to questions. Now you can
ask me how many people are really asking
these kind of complicated questions.
Today not so much. We get 20 million
queries a day and you know maybe like
80% of them are like pretty deep
questions but over time it's going to
grow. You're not just going to ask those
kind of weird esoteric questions. You're
going to ask things like oh like how do
I fix my how do I renew my other card?
I'm I'm actually outside the US or like
my passport tour and like I I'm I'm
stuck stuck in this country. What what
do I do? Like these are the kind of
questions that are going to like grow.
Yeah. And I think uh you're not going to
go to Google to that for two reasons.
One is Google uh was never like meant
for that. It's ingrained in you is not
that user habit yet. So that muscle
memory is not something that we're
competing with. So we can actually like
be the product go to product for that.
Number two is even if they ship things
like AI overview or like answers right
there, it they don't actually know when
to like um do that when when not to and
it becomes a uh you know like a kitchen
sink of so many different UIs in one
search page which really frustrates the
user and it actually competes with their
ad business u and like revenue traffic
right so um that's where I think we have
a clear opportunity and this category
searches is going to grow uh
exponentially in the next 5 to 10 years
and we won't be the only person to
capture that market. I think chat GPT
will also compete even though chat GP
started off as a writing tool they're
also like going more towards these kind
of uh prompts and Gemini will also be a
player in this but it's going to be a
pretty interesting uh new market that's
emerging. Yeah. So without even knowing
about this you're right I use perplexity
for this only like and it's so
subconscious that I use it for XYZ
reason because probably the first time I
asked question it showed me the kind of
answers which made me ask more deeper
questions. So I would really go on
Google and be like hey Sachin
Dendelkar's age
or how much this person's spending or
whatever like some random very easy one
word kind of answer and then I would go
on perplexity and be like okay what's a
specific core message of this person in
this speech in this year right and then
this is the specificity I go to and then
I get an answer yeah by the way I I
would say just you know like for
the correct correctness of it. both
sides will do what the other side is
doing like we'll be we'll try to get
even faster at like quick fast facts
like such a 10 age or um how much did
the India spend on transportation those
kind of like things um and it'll make
the experience better for you so that
you don't have to go somewhere else for
those questions like why even the user
burden of deciding when to use what tool
um and at the same time Google will also
try to get better at like you know like
like
pull-ups that require multiple hops of
reasoning. So both things are going to
happen and that's why it's interesting
moment for the user like u of like who's
going to deliver the best orchestrated
product. Is it the one that's starting
from answers or is it the one that
already has links and these one box
answers? Nobody knows, right? Because
you can argue in both favor like the
more general system can build the final
solution faster versus the legacy system
that's trying to like you know layer in
things together. What would beating
Google be like it would feel amazing
like there I I was definitely inspired
by Larry and Sergey a lot and the
founding story of Google the academic
roots they're deeply inspir I mean I've
worked as an intern there both deep mind
and brain and a lot of the Google
culture engineering focus I'm big fan of
that. So it would feel great to have a
product that uh look I think the true
test is if even people within Google
like Google employees and their kids
they all use perplexity instead of
Google because it's a better product not
because they want to like they they stop
liking Google and they move for it but
like they truly there's no other choice
you have to use it because it's a better
product. I think that is the true true
uh benchmark and that's going to take a
while but what would it look like? Okay.
So you said it'll be feel amazing but
what would it look at like at what point
will you know that okay we have done
better job
two three markers yeah like so today we
do like 20 million daily queries right
uh it has to get to like uh two orders
of magnitude more like two billion now
you can say it's even that's lower than
what Google does like I think Google
does like around 6 to 8 something like
that but uh because of the query length
here uh I I would say that we we've done
the job. Um and um you can see it right
like look the the younger generation has
less loyalty to Google as as we do. So
they're actually the older generation
allows these voicetooice systems. The
younger generation also allows using
these uh conversational systems. So we
so I think it's going to be very
interesting to see how the behavior of
the new generation changes. Uh so so one
way to mark like a marker is like what
what product do they use when they grow
up. Uh and my prediction is it won't be
all Google. Let's play the long game
here. Like it's not necessary to win
every single user. Yeah. Um and I think
that mentality of like, oh, I'm the next
Google means I need to have 90% market
share should go away. I think no one's
going to be that next Google. So when I
say we're competing with Google, I'm
only saying about the core search
experience. Yeah. Not the Alphabet unit
or the Google stock. So a lot of people
like use this, you know, criticism for
us saying like, oh, like look at this
competitor, but then Google stock keeps
going up. Okay, listen, like they have
like so many other businesses and I'm
not saying the stock is going to go down
ever. Like it's a safe investment to
make. They have VHO, they have like so
many new businesses that are coming up.
Deep mine, uh, Alpha Fold, like Quantum
Ships. So it's it's a great company, but
the core search product for the first
time ever in like two decades uh is
clearly under threat. If if it was not
under threat, they wouldn't be doing
like Gemini AI overview, right? Yeah.
Interesting. Okay. So is it fair to say
that the success would look like when an
entire generation would use your product
as a default? The way one generation
uses Google as a default. That would
like that would beating Google mean like
yeah or or having a higher market share
there like like that's what like entire
generation like a majority of the
generation using one thing. Yeah.
Exactly. Let's say like it's split like
you know 40 30 20 uh 10 with with among
four tools. I don't know what they are.
Maybe ask like Microsoft Google M like
something like that right? I I think
that would be a pretty big win. And um I
hope like unanimously the the global
aggregate is that and that would be an
even massive win but um even like one
generation would be a great win. Where
do you stand today? Give me give me some
comparison. I'm interested in this.
Let's say right now the AI AI usage is
like I think chat has 80% market share
right now as far as I'm aware. And you u
it's all depend depends on the web and
the mobile. I believe on the web we are
uh third and Gemini is second. On mobile
I think Gemini has more installs but
extremely poor retention. So in terms of
actual usage on mobile I I wouldn't be
surprised if we're number two. Um and I
think like Copilot has a lot of installs
too but lower retention than us. Uh but
clear winner right now both web and
mobile is
CHD and but that doesn't need to remain
the case. Yeah. Uh and that's why it's
really interesting. And uh in terms of
funding, if you want to compare yourself
with let's say a chat GPT, Google and
you where do you stand? Oh, come on.
Like Google Google has like hundred
billion dollars in cash. Yeah. And chat
GPT has raised uh I mean as an open AI.
Yeah. They've raised um the last round
was probably like 10 billion and I think
they're going to raise more and they've
already raised like 13 billion. So in
total they raised 20 billion or 25
billion, right? And they can definitely
have they have the brand to raise more.
Yeah. So we we have not even raised a
billion so far in in total. How much
have you raised total? I mean uh in
total we've raised around like 800 or
900 million, right? So, and the last
round was around. Yeah, we raised 500 in
the last round. So, clearly like from
one end, if you look at our funding
rounds, it looks
massive. But on the other hand, these
are like three like like one has 100,
another has like you know raised 20 but
burning five like losing 5 billion a
year. So, it's not exactly same and us
is like we raise not even a billion. So,
clearly these are three different uh
like orders of magnitude on the
spectrum. Um, but the nice thing is like
just because you have the money doesn't
mean you
win. Um, like like I said, if that was
true, then we would never have been even
being in the conversation. Yeah. Uh, so
the one who can ship the best product
has like a good chance uh lower
bureaucracy, faster movement, lower
distractions, clear right focus on just
the product. Definitely has like a lot
of advantages here. So what we need to
ensure is like keep growing our usage,
keep growing our brand and mind share
uh figure out ways to like monetize well
too so that we don't just end up with
like a big pile of cash and a lot of
users but don't know how to turn that
into real business. We don't want to be
in that sort of spot either. So but
don't like uh overemphasize revenue over
growth. So that we we if we can ensure
we get these basics right over the next
two years and keep shipping cool things
and staying ahead of the rest and core
user experience then we have a good shot
at like playing this game. But if we
don't like there's nothing we ship that
others don't ship in like a matter of
weeks or months. Mhm. Uh and if we are
not growing our user base uh and if we
don't know how to monetize the existing
user base well we're definitely going to
be in a difficult spot. And your current
focus is revenue or growth? growth. So
you're not going to focus on revenue for
a while. We we'll make good revenue to
the extent that like at least on the
paying users we have good margins and
the free users the cost of running the
service keeps going down because these
models get cheaper and we'll figure out
ways to make it cheaper algorithmically
too. But we're not going to obsess about
like making revenue and turning the
company profitable next year. Yeah.
Okay. And then what about XAI? You read
the news yesterday. They just
circulated. I think Elon raised $6
billion for XAI. Yeah. Are are you
scared of Elon? I mean, come on.
Like what? It's not scare. I'm I'm a
fan. Like, he's a, you know,
inspirational entrepreneur for me. Um,
and I think it's cool that he's also
building something here in the space and
I would never underestimate him. It's
the quote is like never bet against Elon
Musk. that my hope is like there's a lot
of people who you know um there's not
like one product everybody uses here you
know there's a lot of people use
different apps and he's also going to
work in the search space clearly like
rock's doing some Mhm. web sources
too. Uh my sense is like there are a lot
of verticles to build here. Um there is
finance, shopping, travel, local,
weather, news, um
sports, like so even within each of
these there's so many subtles
um and like entertainment is there,
shows. So there's a lot of things to do
here that like
um some products will be amazing at some
things, some products will be worse at
other things. And I feel um Elon's entry
just makes the whole market even bigger
that if it takes if some if something is
worth his time then it just means like
the market's huge and but does it bother
you? Does it scare you in some say? No.
because they're already like a lot of
star players and the big players with
big deep pockets and then there's Elon
as well now he's entering into this this
space where you are operating and you
are three you're number third right now
you want to escalate to number two and
then eventually number one but then
there's this guy and you said the world
says that don't bet against Elon right
yeah I mean by that I mean like he's not
going to lose he's definitely going to
have a good market share is going to win
in in some manner. No, but what does it
mean? Like if someone like him raises
the money, does it mean raising money
for you gets difficult? U so it's it's
it's complicated like obviously you know
um money is not infinite sum right.
Um similarly GPUs are not infinite sum
like there there there are some zero sum
games there because just constraints in
the world how much capital there is and
how many GPUs you can make. Yeah. So
yeah definitely like there are some
advantages having a lot of capital but
at the same time uh it's also how you
spend it. Uh so XAI for example has
raised $6 billion out of which they
intend to spend five billion on just
building a data center with a million
GPUs. At least that's what I read. Maybe
it's wrong. Maybe it's an overestimate
but let's just assume that they spend 60
to 70% of the cash on just building data
centers. So uh that's not how we are
spending our money. So the amount
they're actually spending on the core
product and making it better uh will be
probably comparable on a yearly basis.
Uh, and I think that gives you a pretty
good shot if you're not training your
own models. Um, and now you can ask
like, oh, what if they train an insanely
better model than the rest? Yeah, that
this makes their product way better that
no matter if you use other people's
models, you're not going to be as good
as them. again like it's
possible but I wouldn't give it a very
high probability because um so far the
trends are that models are like there
are like too many players and they're
all like playing ping pong and like it's
very evenly contested like anthropics
there Google's there meta's there openai
is there so um I think there's good um
thesis for a company like us which can
use all of them and just focus on the
user so now that He's a part of the
government as well. Does it give him any
edge? I mean my my sense is like he's
never really taken any advantage of that
and like for example not yet. Okay. Like
I I would just go by past actions are a
good predictor of future and he um owns
X. Yeah. Right. But it's not like he um
deamplified any of his rivals tweets or
company rivals's tweets. So he could
have done that like just gone to the
algorithm like tweaked the knobs to like
lower the engagement score for those
tweets. He could have done that and like
hurt the marketing efforts of everybody
except he himself he has he's never done
as far as I know OpenAI always dominates
the Twitter
discussions and he owns the platform. He
lets them thrive on it despite his
rivalry. So I think he that that already
shows like he doesn't combine like his
power or ownership or something that's
very powerful with like his business
interests. So I think like whatever work
he's going to do in the government I
would just assume that u he truly cares
about the country and he's not like
combining his business interests with
that. You also said in Lex Freedman's
podcast that perplexity is not succumb
to political power the way Google is.
What do you mean by that? like you know
Google in the past has been like accused
of
um like at least like ranking uh bias
where if you tried Trump news you would
get both it would kind of reformulate
your query to like Harris Trump and give
you like both articles
u whereas for um if you just type Harris
news you'll just get her news
or uh autocomplete when you type in
Google that your query are auto
suggested, right? If you type Donald
like the the next suggestion is duck and
not Trump and Trump doesn't even show up
in the other list of suggestions. At
least three or four instances like these
like um where Google clearly had some
ranking bias. Um I think like for
example the Joe Rogan Trump podcast when
people went to search for on YouTube you
couldn't even find it.
So we we don't have these issues as far
I mean we as far as I'm aware like we've
tried to be pretty politically neutral.
Um
and again it's easy to build from a
clean slate than having something and
trying to correct it. Mhm. Um but at the
same time um I'm also reading news of
Sundar meeting Trump a lot and like
Sergey went and met Trump and Sundar
clearly sent out an email saying gone
are the days where we had like political
opinions and the only thing we care
about is our mission delivering correct
information. So clearly like they're
changing and so maybe what I said you
know in the Lex podcast one year ago may
not be relevant now. Do you see any
potential political threats coming on
Perplexity at some point? I see. Um,
look, you don't know like there are
always unknown unknowns. If there is
some article that said something
negative about somebody and uh that
surfaced in an answer and like someone's
upset about it and um even though the
answer gives all perspectives
u there are chances that some group of
people could get upset about it, right?
So u anytime when a group of people are
involved and their sentiments are hurt
there's like room for politics to become
part of it and and it may not even
happen in America it might happen in
some other country and censorship and
free speech have like different levels
of relevance in each country. So um
we're open to like you know working with
each government look like individual
government like what they think is
reasonable for their country. We have to
abide by their rules right. Uh I've been
very clear about this like Google in the
beginning I think they had all these
opinions of like them being about
governments and like you know what they
really care about is like um true
freedom like that that sort of like you
know you can read their culture don't be
evil like just be free and they refused
to operate in China when China wanted to
censor them. So u reality is like
everyone's a capitalistic business at
the end of the day. Yeah. you know,
they're all competing to win government
contracts. At one point, Google Cloud
employees
um protested that Google's working with
the Pentagon and now like they just
fired those people who did it again and
they're competing with Amazon and
Microsoft to win those contracts because
clearly that moves their revenue up and
moves the stock up and that's what the
shareholders want, right? So, um I think
like we we're not going to repeat those
mistakes of like what they went through
where
they forgot that they were actually a
company and like trying to like have
political opinions and things like that.
Like we're going to be like a proper
well-run business at the end. great
product. Like we want to be a great
product, but we have clear
responsibility to like our shareholders
and we're not going to like confuse that
with
like my agenda or like someone else's
agenda that all that stays outside the
company. But would you lose out on these
opportunities even if it means
sacrificing revenues for your company?
What what do you mean by lose out on
options? lose out on opportunities of
trying to maybe partner with some
person, some government, somebody who
wants little bend in your rules and in
your platform so that it shows searches
in their favor. Mhm. But that means you
winning lot of government contracts, you
winning a lot of revenues and eventually
that maximizing your company's value.
Complicated question, right? like what I
I don't want to say something that'll be
held to like obviously uh we'll try to
do what's like right as as as to the
best of our abilities as possible.
Um but if a certain government has rules
that you have to obey if you want to
like just think about it leave us even
you as an individual if a certain
government has rules
u of what you can do and not do and you
want to continue there and like run your
business there you will follow it right
or you have to move out. Yeah. The same
thing applies to a business like us but
sometimes it's not rules it's just few
influencers calling you. Mhm. That's it.
It's not about the rules. Like rules are
pretty much black and white and you can
be freedom of speech. You can show
whatever you want to show. But maybe the
ruling party wants something else
because these are the political
pressures which probably a Google faces
or meta faces or maybe Twitter says like
X now. Jack Dorsey has been very vocal
about it that specifically about Indian
government and a lot of other
governments in the world that there are
some pressures that they have to
actually listen to. I mean like I I just
look at the fact that even uh someone
like Elon way more influential than me
and way more opinionated than me. Um
like like how he's handled like conflict
with countries in different ways like
with I think there was conflict with
India at some point there was conflict
with Brazil at some point and I think
the way he went about it was different.
Mhm. So um so long answer short it's
very complicated because you're in India
I want to talk about challenges of
India. Okay. What do you see like where
is India today in terms of in the world
of AI? How far are we from becoming even
a contender in the AI world? Yeah. Like
I mean I'm sorry if I'm repeating what I
said earlier but I think we are very
well positioned in terms of adoption.
like we've already adopted a lot like
92% of knowledge workers have adopted AI
here compared to 65% of global average
elsewhere um so the amount of people who
already know how to use these tools and
like um can keep themselves updated with
it is pretty awesome you don't need to
like train them or something like when I
went to Japan I I saw like uh there were
like actual courses on how to learn chat
GBT or like all these different tools
that people writing books on how to use
perplexity. I don't think you even need
these things here. People are already
like pretty u acclimatized to these
things. Um what are the challenges that
you see here? I think the challenges are
how can people using these tools earn
more?
They should they should ideally because
uh they should be able to do more work
now
uh faster throughput. So, I hope like
the usage goes beyond just like
identifying hacks and cheat codes to get
work done faster to like, okay, this
thing is actually making my life so much
easier. So, I'm going to like figure out
side gigs that I can do and earn more
and and if like a bunch of people start
doing that, um the average income goes
up and GDP goes up. So, that needs to
happen. I hope it's already happening to
at least at a small scale, but that
really needs to happen. Uh the second
thing a challenge I would say is okay
now that you guys really know how to use
these tools and you get a sense of it.
Um can you start building apps and
businesses that can let um other people
use things in a way that are not
possible with the existing tools whether
you build it for the Indian market or
the international market doesn't matter
but build something that doesn't exist
yet and um get it in the hands of like
100 million people here and um create
new um market caps from nothing right
employ new people here and they give
them opportunities. So that's again
creation of value that needs to happen.
So uh the bright side is we know how to
use these tools. Uh the flip side is
like we have to figure out how
to increase the GDP of our country per
capita GDP is more important of our
country through these things and I
really hope like one um advantage that
we have healthcare is uh looked upon
more seriously as an opportunity space.
So you said people should start earning
more. Yeah. Give me three examples of
businesses which are going to benefit
from the rapid adoption of AI. I would
say healthcare. Okay. I would say like a
lot of like software development easily
like you know a lot of other companies I
think like there are a lot of
independent consultants here who like do
coding gigs for others. I think they can
do a lot more now per unit time. Um so
software development, healthcare, I
think just financial consulting. Um how
a financial consultant can use AI to
give better. Yeah. So take have the AI
look at your portfolio and have the AI
go and research the web on like latest
news related to each of these stocks. uh
read analysis reports, private reports
prepared by all these banks like Goldman
Sachs or Barclays uh sellside reports
and then come back with investment
advice of like what you should be like
changing to adjust it or um new um
stocks that you should be looking into
new changes equivalent of like several
hours of actual research that an analyst
doesn't charge us for. If you can have
an AI do it, arbitrage that and give it
to more people who usually don't get
access to these kind of uh
consultants and allow everybody wants to
make money and you take some cut of
that. Yeah. And like create mark value
from nothing, right? So AI based
financial advisor, AI based healthcare
advisor or maybe agents who are
connecting you to doctors or just
allowing you to get quick checks on like
what's happening to you, uploading your
reports, having it be audited by an AI
and then using that going to a doctor.
Um all these things are like clear
opportunities. Okay. And what are the
businesses that are going to feel the
maximum tension because of AI? they're
going to fail because of adoption of AI
software consulting right like if you
can get work done with the help of an AI
co-pilot coding co-pilot like you're no
longer like going to rely on like like a
huge form of dev shops uh customer
support like you know call centers I
think voice agents are going to be able
to do a lot of these things pretty well
we should try to disrupt it ourselves
like whoever is going to these call
centers and doing these calls and like
we should try to like do it with a you
know AI as much as we can. Uh so
obviously some people who are going
there are going to lose their jobs but
uh whoever is like running these
businesses can potentially have higher
margins too and those margins can be
used to give those people that are
potentially going to lay off like
different kind of jobs right I think we
got to do some restructuring there okay
these are the two places where you see
the most I have two three like fun
questions one is what is the most
ridiculous and bizarre search query you
have read I think someone like ended of
asking something very particular for
like oh like I I want my
um face protected. I I still want to be
able to breathe but it should cover my
nose and like it should just have the um
holes for my eyes and I want to like
bike uh in the winter for Thanksgiving
like help me figure out like which city
I can go to and like what I should buy
like and we ended up giving him like a
really nice like product recommendation.
Okay. And when when we actually saw like
we saw that product getting purchased,
either this person's trying to um rob a
bank or or they're really like in a cold
place. So we went and actually like
checked query and the query was so long
and again like this is the kind of thing
that people are very creative and like
using these products that you know.
Interesting. And what's the craziest
conspiracy you've heard about AI? Well,
there's always this conspiracy theory of
like uh AI this
AGI is this god like thing that you can
use to control the whole
universe by um building super
intelligent entity. Mhm. And whoever has
access to that will be the mastermind.
Yeah. And uh you know some people think
Sam Alman ultimately wants that but I I
I don't think it's it's that level
of power craze. By the way there is true
power in in being the u CEO or the chief
decision maker of a company that's
building the most intelligent
model. But I don't think it's being
built with the intention of controlling
the universe. M
but do you think that's possible? I
think it's uh going to be like you know
it's not going to like fool people in
doing things. It's possible by the way
that like a very intelligent AI can
manipulate people. Yeah. But I think the
power games are not going to come from
those things like it's not like oh
politician wants to have access to it to
to win the next election or something.
they can do it. But the real danger is
going to be more from
um if you can throw like the equivalent
of 100 most intelligent
scientists but working 24/7
um on like a very hard pharma problem,
figure out a new um
drug and like the next or something and
sell it for a crazy premium.
um and you completely own the solution.
The only way you even got to the
solution is you had the ability to spend
that much inference
compute. Um so those kind of situations
are we are like one country getting uh
the end output of a very super
intelligent AI that they can use to
their advantage in the market. Mhm. And
then uh because of that the next thought
effects are another country trying to
steal it in some manner. and that
leading to like defense problems and
warfare you know those kind of
situations are possible those are the
big and real worries that's what I think
will happen if we have like super
intelligence I'm not talking about
general intelligence super intelligence
is a weird thing it's it's it's not a
thing we understand today because we're
not used to super intelligence it
doesn't really exist there there are
people that have been extraordinarily
intelligent like Einstein,
but you wouldn't call even Einstein
super intelligent. He cracked like three
or four very important problems. Yeah.
But it's not like he there was an
equivalent of a computer Einstein that
just oh I could throw any domain any
problem at that computer and they would
come up with the equivalent of theory of
relativity for that problem that has
massive like economic impact too that
doesn't exist but once it exists
whichever country has it the next
country that's trying to compete for
being the world superpower will also
want it. Yeah. If you happen to be that
person when you get and you are at the
top of the pedestal, you become the most
powerful person in the world of
supercomputers and AI. What would you
do? I'm happy I'm not even in that
place. I think it's a very weird um
position to be. I've been wanting to ask
this from the point we started. Right.
You're in a sort of competition and race
with all these large companies and
incredibly successful founders, right?
Who loses the most if you win? I think
like I mean I've never thought about it
in a zero sum way. There are clearly
some zero sum games with some other
companies
undoubtedly. Um I think it's not about
whether we win. Um, whoever is going to
crack this AI native answer engine
assistant, let's say you cracked it,
okay? Whoever cracks it, the one with
the most to lose is
Google and and that's simply because of
their current business model. M
now by the time someone cracks it if
their other bets YouTube cloud and all
that they increase the margins there and
they figure out a way to like make way
more even more successful meanwhile and
get some new cash flow there and explain
to the shareholders that like look this
is clearly an inflection moment but like
we have other things and we'll be fine
and we'll go for the new thing too. It's
not like they're going to get destroyed
but they definitely are going to have a
difficult turbulent period. So yeah,
they they have the big most to lose in
this game and they're aware of it and I
think they're working on it. Got it. You
know, my one worry is with the rapid
adoption of AI. This happened with all
the technologies which are coming is
increase of digital amnesia. So it's
like a phenomena where people forget
information on day-to-day basis a lot
because they rely on technology. Oh
right. Right. Yeah. That's right. That's
fair. So it's like so compared to like
our parents generations the way we
calculate things is our ability to
calculate simple math problems has gone
because we use calculators. Similarly
when I see my younger cousins they do it
their ability to just remember
information is so low because they are
like Google first chat GPD perplexity
kind of people who are just constantly
using these. Yeah. So increase of
technology is going to just increase the
digital amnesia where people are
forgetful left, right, center. Yeah.
Okay. Let me put it this way.
I are you good at like driving with a
physical map versus using Google maps?
Correct. Google maps of course. But but
I think the previous generation like our
our previous generation wouldn't have
needed Google maps. They would have
taken a physical print out and like
figured out Yeah. Yeah. that like like
they would have mapped what they see in
front of them to the 2D layout and
figured it out. they wouldn't need like
accurate. It's very dynamic, right? But
so little things like how do your brain
functions because if you if you remember
a little thing then it gives you
confidence to remember like the bigger
things as well. So today it could be as
small as something like let's say
remembering a phone number. We don't
nobody even cares about it. But that
habit of telling or signaling our brain
that hey you need to remember this
little thing is getting down down. Yeah.
So that's why that's which which I think
is totally okay by the way. Which is
okay. I'm I'm saying like a lot of
things a lot of times what is happening
I'll tell because I was reading some
survey which is going on is not proven
yet. I think some university in
Australia is doing it where they're
they're testing that pe more and more
young people are forgetting to take
medicines on time. I see. But they don't
remember like just a small thing. You
could argue that like uh that that's the
job of the AI like the AI should just
tell them when take the medicine and
they should take it and uh you know like
like by the way forgetful people exist
already like even I'm pretty forgetful
myself. I'm not like um on top of
everything. Same. It's because your your
RAM is limited right now. I guess what
you're trying to say is like what the
next generation is going to load their
RAM with is going to look very different
from us. Um, and it's going to be
interesting to see like how they spend
their mental compute. If they if they
don't spend it at all and it's all just
like uh
unutilized, that's sad. Yeah, that's
what I'm telling. I hope that's not
going to happen. if they have all that
um free capacity and they can spend it
on like more creative things that would
be amazing
and it's still like jewelry is still out
of what's going to happen but I'm hoping
like it's going to be the second yeah if
it happens like that like all with all
the free mental capacity that they have
if they increase their ability to work
on more complex problems it's going to
be great but if it happens the other way
around which is which a lot of people
are worried about that's something I
deal is I don't know what's going to
happen then. Yeah. I mean it'll be bad
because because our um if
you if you like roll out multiple
generations after that like it's only
going to get worse. So we really need to
make sure like they are being thrown at
like hard problems and like you know
given all these tools and hey go figure
it out. Got it. Well perfect. Thank you
so much for coming here. This was
awesome. By the way, I heard you're the
Joe Rogan of India. That's what someone
told me. Is that true? No, I am the Raj
Shamani of India. Let's just put it this
way. Cool. Awesome. Perfect. Thank you
so much for coming here. I really
enjoyed our chat. I have bunch of
questions for you, but maybe we'll the
time do it again and try to figure out
all the best for your India trip. Thank
you. Thank you. Thank you so much. I
read your one I think it was some
interview some podcast or some like an
outcome of this and the thumbnail was
like I'm going to beat Google. Oh yeah.
People make these thumbnails. That's why
I asked you this question. Do you go to
these meetings and be like hey I'm going
to beat I mean you're a YouTuber you
understand I do. Yeah. Thank you so much
for watching this podcast till the
end. Number two,
comments. And number
three, conversation is enough to change
someone's life. I'll see you next time.
Until then, keep figuring out.
[Music]