our main problem was that both are families
r r r r r r r r r very
orthodox like my mom my dad's family
as well as my moms. and we didn't know if
they'd have like me going into the
industry and you know that's when we
decided to speak to my great grand
master and she was quite quizzical she look
at me. said no she dances so well. she can make
it. she has the talent. was a long road
before your first hit. i kept getting
work. i kept getting roles but i
didn't decide what i wanted to do. u
feel ott now sort of creates more
opportunities [music] to write these about you
no characters of depth for women?
absolutely. there's a lot of comfort on
the sets today. which was not ah when we
were working, we denied heaven's end, we
didn't have all that, am i for same. did you
spend a lot of time with him, what was
hee like? he kept calling you his views.
no, he was, he was really a lovely person. butt
someone who started earning when he was
17, do you manage your own money? do you
invest your money? these two little boys who were
just outside. you know there to go around
with the rag and your car kind of ending. so
then he came to he says madam autograph
autograph. so i gave him autograph and my
name starts with then m obviously. so
i rot madhuri dixit then he took that
the thing and he look at the thing and he said, see
i said, mohini mohini. [laughter]
what's been your secret in dealing with the
failure? you know every failure makes me angry.
so an icon for three generations of indians.
ah for dose of us grew up in the 80's and the
90j we wanted to be you. i know they made a
film about it later but i remember being
in school and in high school and wanting
your hair and your clothes and everything
about you. and it's quite amazing for me
to be able to have this conversation with you
today. i have admired you for so long.
thank you for all of the work that you've done
in your career and sort of racing as us
young women when we were younger and thank you
for speaking with me today
i know that you started very young you were 17
yes when you started off ah and you were on
stage much before that's well as a dancer yes
i started learning kathak age of three and
so i had a lot of dance performances and
you know me and my sister used to perform
together as well
and even through school i to be on stage all
the time weather its singing and elocution and
you know doing places and dancing and anything
eyes to be on stage always and you grow up
in mumbai but you were not from a film
family? no i was.
so what was what i mean did you think of
it's the first thing? i want to be in
films? or did the family think she should
be good in film? how to hang the data? no
actually what happened was that someone we knew
worked in the rajshree office
and they were looking for a youngster like a
young girl to play a child bride in a movie
called abodh and he came to us and he said
since madhuri is so well known to be on stage
in her school and she dances so well she has
a national talent scholarship and you know you have
see her dance and she's so good and would have you
like to try because you know they are looking
for a young girl well, and we never thought
about being in films and that's the end
my family was no no we don't think so
you know she's going to do her studies
and that's what my mom told him. and
he came back he said no just meet them
atleast ones. just come to the office and meet
the people. they are amazing and tarachand ji was
a you know alive at that time and he said
just meet them. it's a lovely family and you
feel like you're meeting your own family. just
come and meet them. so that kind of convinces
us and me and my mom and my dad we
go to their office to meet them. four
tarachand ji was there and rajbabu ji was there
there. and we met them and they spoke to
hours. they made me read a little book the
it was about the author in the back of the book
hindi? so they said, can you read this for us
and i did and they were like, oh good, you
don't have a marathi accent. why d speak
hindi? so, they just want to check that
out. hmm.
but we met them and we thought they were true
nice people down to earth. you know very
family oriented.
and so nice to meet so nice to talk so
down to earth. and we went back like
sketching are heads and we were like o my
god there's such a nice people because till then we
all he had this impression of you know the
bollywood b. like film films film
the ones. yah. like that. and we were like
quite taken a back and we went back and we
started thinking about this and my mom
was like what you want to do and
i was like i'd like to try i'd like to try
like to i mean i love to act i love to
dance and i love to do all that so we said
let's audition you know so we did the
the audition and everything and we came back and they
like the audition and they said we really like her
you know we might cast her but we don't
no yat we've decided and stuff so we
came back but our main problem was that both
are families are very orthodox like mine
my dad's family as well as my mom's and
we didn't know if they would have liked me going
into the industry and you know in the film
industry so we headed to speak to them and
that's when we decided to speak to my
great grandma she was still live at that
point and we talk to her and he said you know
she is getting an offer nothing is done
yeet. but she's getting an offer and what
should we do what you think if you say that
no she shouldn't go we will you know we will
respect your wishes and she will not end
she was quite quizzical she looked at me. she
said no she dances so well. and you know oh she
she was really hard working and i think
she can make it. she has the talent. and if
she works hard. she'll make it. and
we have no objections to her going into the
film industry and we were like oh my
god what's happening and then we waited
for you know the rajshrees to call back and
nothing happened
hmm
and there was no news from them for like
two three months and i was like in college
and i said mom they're not going to call
now i was like i'm going to cut my
hair so said no no don't cut your hair there
not very long but they were long enough that you
no for the film it would have been great
and
finally she said okay go cut your hair and i
used to like that end of hair. i used
to like tamarind cut them short and i went
and cut my chopped my hair off and they called
they called the next week they called and i
went to the office and raj babu you really are
had like oh my god a panic attack. hee
said what have you done to you
your hair? i said, i didn't know what i said
will be selected. you are selected and you
know everything and the director coming down
and we'll do some scenes you know from the
movie and so they put a big on me they big
old big on me witch big hair long hair
and we did the little final auditions you know ah
scenes from the movie and the director loved
my work and they all were like okay she's on
board and that's how my first film
happened ah they wanted to start in march
and my mom said no no no you can't start
in march april she had exams was my
12th exams happened then. and they said,
ok, we wait for her late her finish exams
and then begin. so, that's how i did
my. so, you read 16? or, 16
16 17 when you did and it was if
i'm not mistaken it was a longest road
before your first hit. before yes, four
years five years, so from 17 to 21
88,
or, or, four years. and the thing was that i
kept getting work. i kept getting roles
but i hadn't decided what i wanted
to do because you know education was so
important for my family. so i thought
be because i was a science student after
both i went back to college.
ok.
and i started doing microbiology
and
we didn't know where we wanted to be. i
wanted to do this and that both. hmm.
so i said, i can do my studies. and
because i was getting roles with lv
prasad production. very good productions.
but since they were offering me roles which took
only small amount of your time. like 10
days, 15 days. so i did swati and meena-
money ah meenakshi sheshadri was the main.
the lead, and i did ours above, were again
meenakshi sheshadri was the main lead and i
was playing the second lead. but it suited me
because just 10-15 days of work and i could
go back to my studies. and that's how i came
and up doing a song in karma ah subhash
jesus film end
he said that you know i really like your work.
i i love the way you dance and everything. so
you have to stop doing the small roles that
you've been doing and just decided what
you want to do. weather you want to do
films and go back to your stuff.
commit if this is what you really want to do.
and that's when i thought yes you know i love
what i do and i want to be in films
and that's when i decided and then you
no i was signed for ramlakhan
and i did so many films before that i
did
which other films so there we liked
think a slower films i've done six
seven eight films before tezaab happened
yes end of course when acid happened then
it you know everything was
everything changes everything.
but mr. subhash played a massive role in
pulling you out of you know obscurity
put any one stage.
kind of introducing because he was
going to introduce me into his
films. like sign me for his films
then he had two kinds of
mount me you know as someone to look forward to
and you know break that imagery of me doing
smaller rolls. in these films and kind of
giving it a new kind of a new chapter
in my life.
back then he ran a newspaper campaign, right?
sort of launching your fore screen. so,
we head these little things in screen wear
my eyes appeared first than you know, ah sam
more part of my face and then the full face
appeared and this only said that you know, this
girl is going to be signed by me and i
introducing her in ah ramlakhan. sol.
how did you know at that age when you
you're effectively a teenager and you're
signing these films? you were working with
big actors.
how did you manage to sort of keep your head
about you.
i think i credit that to my mom. she
always used to be with me. and she is the one
who used to bring me back to earth and you
no and give me the strength that you need.
she was my backbone basically, you know through
out. so if people criticize me there oh she
is too thin she she she she she she she she she she she
she is too skinny she does this you know
makeup put on some weight and you know because i
was very young at that time and so out too
be like mom they're saying this and she just
to say don't worry don't worry about anything
says once your film is successful they will
praise you easily for the things that they are
criticizing you today so don't even think
about it you're good the way you're just keeping
working do a good job every time you go on
the set work sincerely do your best you know
and once you get that recognition people will
forget about all the little things been talking
something you know now when you're racing
young man yourself now you have two boys is
that's something that you're pushing forward
because dealing with failure and disappointment
this is a particular challenge for this generation
of young people
what are you telling them as a mom
well i always tell them that failures are
not
a failing point look at failures as a
learning process you know whenever you fail it
it's not the end of the world you have to learn
from your failure and move ahead so these are
the stumbling blocks and something that teaches
you know and you move forward don't look at
it's as something that didn't work looks at it
something taught you what you have to do to make
it work so that's what i keep telling
them all the time and i said don't be
afraid of failures. hmm!
you know, you need failures in life too
actually grow and rise. you know. the thie up
success of ek do teen which
you know it was it was marky because people were
going in to the theater just to see the song.
[laughter] then apparently leaving after it
changed your life. what was that like? it
was wonderful because finally, ah people
recognized me. income recognized for
my talent for the amount of work i put
in all the scenes in the films. it was a
very a different film for a regular you know
commercial cinema actress like the hole
relationship between me and my father and you
know all those kinds of things and they were
lot of scenes in the film which ah
bring out a different personality than you know
me dot different part of me. and i really
very enjoyed working on that film and n
chandra because he was like a guide throughout
you know and guiding me with every scene
little thing we did so i think it kind of
suddenly put me in the forefront and i
enjoyed every bit of it. i have to say
recognition like i landed on the airport
and i wasn't here when the film
released. i was in us. so when i came
back, there's these too little. i always tell
this incident because it is very close to
my heart. and these two little boys who were
just outside you know there to go around with
a rag and king your car kind of and
look at me and one of them i think they're one
two three one two three. so i notice that and i
said oh my god. somebody nice. [laughter] so
then he came to he says madam autograph
autograph. so i give him autograph and my
name starts with n. obviously. so
i wrote madhuri dixit and she took that
thing and he looked at them and he said seeing
i said mohini mohini [laughter]
so suddenly i was being known as a character
i played in a movie and everybody was like
mohini end
the recognition that everything is just
like validates you know everything that works
so i mean a lot of times people are
watching the film especially back then didn't
realize that's the songs that you're known for
involved
you know 10 hours, 15 hours may be even more off
filming where you do these things over and
over again over and over again in order to
get it right
is there a work ethic there that you still
hold absolutely absolutely i am my
work work ethic is something that i'm about
on the sets i'm on the sets i'm all there
you know i'm present i'm in the moment
even when we did ah the song ek do teen we
head to break the set the next day so, we
worked all day, all night and we packed up the
next day 10:30 in the morning. ah so,
dose kind of work and- work ethics once you
got to it, you've proven. you just have to
do left. yah.
because at the edge as you know, as the lead or the
heroine you were called back then, there are 100
people on the set, but they're all dependent on
you're getting it right. yah, for them to finish
there day. oh, ya. they are all waiting for now
she's gonna get it right if she gets it
rong. we're all staying back till she
gets it right. you know that's a lot of
pressure. that's a lot of pressure but you know
we have lovely directors like even the
choreographers like saroj and they all way so
supportive and always encouraged us
always like and behind us. will be done. don't
worry. let's do one more. let's go one more. you know
like that. so, i think it all worked out
fine. i mean you're now a you've got a
new show coming out and you're obviously
spending considerable amounts of times
on sets as well but when you compare the
sets and the way work was done back in the 80s
and the 90s to what's happening now
which is very professional very recommended
ah you know they are not holding up scarf
for changing your clothes you know on location
what strikes you are the things that have
change the most what it was like back then
to be honest
a lot of comfort on the sets today which
wasn't while we were working. we didn't
have vanity ends. we did have all that. so
even if we're shooting n outdoors. we're on
somewhere you know on a mountain. am we
just used to change in the car and you said
somebody who held up the shoals and whatever
and we changed behind it. but today i came
think there's a lot of comfort. you know
there are lots of things they make tents. give
make things for you to seat.
they'll make sure that you're comfortable
as possible. so that the shoot goes on you know how
plunder and everything and that's why it means
was like whatever you have to do that end
then you still have to shoot and give it yours
all you know so in that sense it's much more
organized you know everything you have
whole bound script with you they have worked
out everything from what you're going to
where to how you're going to look and how the
the scene is going to be shot
everything is done before and so once you go
on to set it's all you don't have to
think of everything
butt give give
a film used to be shot like
sporadically not like today you have
three months and you finish the whole film in
two three months or the series in two three
months and you're done and then you move on to
the next one you want to take a break from
can do that and move on to the next but at
that time it was like very sporadic so we
do to shoot for 10 days and then we never
new when we'll shoot for the same film
again unless ofcourse it was yash chopra and a
subhash gaye and a rajchari production are much
more organized yah. but by and large two
shoot like and some times films we run
out of money and they would take a break and ya
you did know when they would come back.
yes. yes. so sometimes continue to you you
you're used to going for a toss.
[laughter] so because i like toss the saree.
the sarees gone somewhere. the hair they don't know
there is no picture of the continuity. so
we just kind. ok. i remember doing
this may be something like this. so, you know
just do the hair which you think is very
similar butt or. used to be a lot of
problems. but i think there was a lot
warmth, there's a lot of room and there
was a lot of. because we used to sit on the
set like this and talk to each other and. u
no, so there was it from each other hells
and and you know, it tere ghar se kya aaya
hai, what's from your house and you know? so
two kinds of things. ah but today i think
it's very organized. but for an actor
it's a dream today. media also vary
different now, right? i mean you where you are
were the top heroines during the days of
sinny blitz. and star dust and you
no, all of that part, truth, part,
gossip, the tough kind of stuff that was happening
retain. and now obviously, i know that you
are active on instagram and social media,
and there's a completely different world with
the paps and things like that. which off
these two worlds do you prefer? i don't.
i think there is plus and minus
to everything. there's so much media. or came
i mean there's so much happening there that ends
ah everything good comes with everything bad
so you just have to accept the fact that
once you put yourself out there anyway on
insta and twitter going too good
too too too too too too too bad it's going to too
to to to to to be next there is going to
be everything and and it's all very there for
you to see you know may be in that era the magazine
used to write something but by and large
never know who's thinking what
you know yah, now you, now, you know, [laughter]
you know.
exactly how people think and sometimes
it's like, oh my god, is that really?
people can think that they can write something
like this. but then you know, it's its part
its part of human nature. i think it
takes all kinds to make this.
you know, the other person i know was who
played a role in your career was gautam
rajadaksh. hmm.
the photographer who you know his works of
punctuated various points of your career.
absolutely.
ah so, when did you meet him. what was
that relationship like?
oh my god. the first time i met him was
i think it was 87 when i had gone to
his house because of all his photo sessions yes too
be done in his own. because he is his
background, everything there and i
remember
then the backgrounds were painted.
oh! or on rolls? painted on rolls and you
no, there to set it up like that. so his
house was big enough
that's who had everything organized out there
so the first time i went i remember it
was like oh my god you know i'm going to
gautam raja president's house and a you know he
is going to be photographing me and i
was kind of i knew that he was a big name
but not completely like the impact of it
and i remember i walk in and he's like
he took one look at me and he says yes you know
he talk like dat he just tell
why have you like gone over your lip? u
have a lovely lip line. can you just remove
and do it again? just do your lips
normally like that. and i was like quiet
taken a back you know photographer telling me
detya and i'm like, okay, and i wally
i did that and what a beautiful photo
the session we did together ended. he was amazing.
as a person he was so giving and he was
like, he was like a father figure. you know
right there and he used to guide me on how
how i should be standing how you know let's
do this let's try that and we'll have a lot
of fun in his house and mintractor used
to do my makeup and him and its
nostalgia completely for i red a
story once where you had some acne
breakout and he found a way to shoot you
ware
| yeah and that that was that was amazing
because today you know just an instant you can
take it out. you can photoshop it and its
gone. but at that time you know what to use
what you shot was what you had. and he
kind of blended the light and i do
what he did and it was amazing what he
did with the pictures. so, i am someone.
was really so talented and amazing.
he's a magician, is a magician, as a
magician. and he you you you you used
to bring out your personality. you know, it
was like you could see the person inside of just
a picture and a dolled up picture. tell me
about mrs. deshpande because i saw a
little bit of the ah the teaser the trailer. its
a very layered character. it is. so, it's
not just it's not just a maternal bond.
which is complicated by itself. its
also crime, it's also sinister. its
it's a lot of things. so why did
you choose it? what about this project?
drew you do it? i think first of all, i
love the fact that she is really a multilayered
character?
its
she she can be very ordinary. i mean you you
just look at her everything is there like
she's just a she's just a housewife. she
she is so ready, she is composed. she is quiet.
she does have to raise a voice but she can make
someone feels really uncomfortable. you know.
just with every silence, and with every kindness,
you know, and
she can just say something and just shake people
up and so, i thought that's power that
she has. i thought that was amazing you know
end of course her hole history her her a back
story adds to whoever she's ah plus like
you said a very complicated kind of
relationship which also plays on
everybody's mind and also the fact that even
do she is working so closely with the
the authorities are with the police and but not
based on trust. it's just based on the
fact that something awesome is happening
and we need to stop that and that's why
they need her help but can you really trust
every
hmm
it's she she can be someone who can be
spinning every thing on the side saying
that's what i'm so bad i'm so bad
i've got something else on my mind as well
so all these things you know that just adds to
the mystery of her character and i thought it
was wonderful to play her end of course
nagesh kokanur
is directing it and i've seen his
past work and i have been admired
loved door cod city of dreams his
latest hunt and hyderabad blues and iqbal
you all these films i've seen and i was
i was very very
i loved his work and then when he approached
me as a director for this i was like ya
i would love to do it because it is also a
director who can extract performance
from you to you and keep the narrative end
everything very precise very concise and
not stray here and there and employees
of course who is behind this whole project
hu ha have done such good work before and i
said yes you know i would love to do this role.
also it makes it
i can do something different. you know from
what i've done so far. so it's not
glamorous. she is not like oh beautiful and
and all that she is like she is someone who i am
is very real very ah very raw very of the
earth you know and that's what i like
about her you feel ott now sort of
creates more opportunities to write these
ah you know characters of depth for women.
absolutely absolutely and that's how i came
have you no done fame game and a mazama because of it
it just gives me a chance to do something
very different from
you know what theatrical release will have
or you know theaters when you put a movie in
a theater you're bound by certain things
that you have think of the audience you have to
please everyone in the audience and so a lot
of ah compromises are done to make your
script you know palatable to everyone. butt
here since there are no constraints of that
kind, you can create stuff that's like
just out of the box and just out of the box
left of the field or you know the right of the
field. absolutely. and that's why
mrs. deshpande was so important for
me to do. is it a fun game or a fame game. u
no, it gives me something so different to do.
so dramatic and and also it gives you
time to know you create your character and
create that mystery and you know everything.
so i think that's how it does and you know
also i think because of ott you also
you know discover so much fresh talent work.
hmm right. how do you mean?
in the sense there is so much talent
which doesn't have to look a particular way and
be a particular way and you know they are talented
people who have just come and just captured you
imagination ah young people who have come you know
with dreams in eyes and there and there
are doing really good job like they are acting so
well and so that kind of discovery has aha
the ott has made it possible to do that and
tell like stories which are so diverse and
ah you and the world cinema is in
front of you know you get to see
different cultures and you get to learn
about so many different things but i found
that's what ultimately boils down to it
emotions and that's the same everywhere. you know
we have the same issues are the same problem. butt
you see the same thing but in a different set
culture. that makes it very interesting. ahh
it was interesting because of what it was like.
blockbuster films that you should know about
you did in the 90s for example am there
there wasn't much space for acting in the
silences which i know you've done here in
mr. deshpande where a lot of the work is
just with your face but without saying anything
|
a but back then it was like very crowded
please it was either crying or you are
no there is no or i would like
tend to die again because i did
films which had a lot of silences too
like a poke. c for every dil to pagal
is. i did there was a death penalty. you know.
and that's the way i was boated up actually
because my dad used to read the newspaper,
see the reviews and then take us to watch
film. so we've seen a lot of shabanaz, me
these kinds of films, which were art
house films at that time. and we grow
upon that. and when i started working
in films than when i was doing
commercial films as well as there was
always something very powerful and i was
very ah fortunate that i got to play dose
kind of roles weather it's beta aur a raja
where you know she's completely like
dominating everything that's happening and
shame makes the heart crazy and more, more shame and more.
death penalty and you know so i got to do this
different kind of roles which is not only
commercial but also or like death penalty had
a lot of silences and there are a lot of
things that end and i've done a film
called sangeet where i learned a lot from the
director k vishwanath ji and ah a prem
pratigya which bapu garu interacted with. so
i think every commercial film there was
something that was doing which was commercial
but yet it had dose littles
you know what was the what's interesting
challenge now with the work that you know
doing with television or with ott?
what are the challenges?
i think sky is a limit you know focally i
feel because
the challenging thing is to select roles
that you want to do like misses
deshpande.
no why did you think i did it because
number one is on ott. ah secondly, it's
it came to me something that i've done before.
we
and it's something that i want to really
sink my teeth into and say this is something
i want to play when you were at the top of
you know your career as a heroine back
then the three khans shahrukh salman and aamir all
of home you work with were still finding
there you know their audience they were building
their careers at that time
are you still in touch with all of them are you
part of their sort of you know am
their memories of how they build their career
when you see how their careers have been
built up till now or i mean in the senses i
have worked with them i think i work with
shahrukh when
he just had done circles and a few of dose
things and i did with him so rahul
said you know that there was this new boy
is so good and this and that and that i had
met shah to do anjaam and i i look at
him and i was like he so
unjumming so cute and you know like he hair
like a on him but what caught me was you
no there was so much depth in his eyes and the
and and there was something really attractive
about that. a and even when i work with
aamir hi hai just hai qayamat se qayamat se qayamat
till and then we did dil to dil so hi waz
also fairly new do had a release and
it was a make hit and everything
and when i worked to salman again he was a
rising star and that time when we work
together in hum aapke hain koun and saajan and all
which films they were like on the rise and on
the goal at that point. will you look back at
your career? obviously successes and failures
s. everybody has a head.
what's been your secret in dealing with
failure?
do you remember moments where you thought
that's oh my god, i don't want to do this
anymore. and you found a way to move pass it.
how do you process failure? how
do you? think you know every failure to get me
angry. in the sense it made me feel that. i
i need to get out of this and i need to
prove myself. so, every failure i look
at as i tell my kids as a
learning curve you know the end
i always used to feel that when i have
done a film i've been on the set i've done
my best you know i have worked sincerely i
have given it all
now i step back the film releases when it
does well or it doesn't do well i've done my
best so i can rest assured that from
my side there been no ya cheating or nothing
that you know i've given it my all. but if
the film doesn't do well than its parts
like how films are like some films work
some films don't work. butt of course
sometimes it does hurt you it just do you
do feel bad. but then it used to give me
like that rigor anger again saying that
dyat na? i'm going to prove myself.
i'm going to the next film which
is going to be even better. so that's how it came
look i failure. the tale was like when
you decided to come back to your career from
the us. i mean i know everybody asks you
about your decision to leave but i'm yours
decision to come back because your husband is crazy
it's a thriving practice. ah he came back
with you, you but the kids back with you ah deed
you know what you were planning on doing with
your career? was it you nervous. from oh my
god, it's going to work out? si, a every
decision you make? of course, there's a little
bit of a you know, nervousness in the sense that
oh, we're going to a new thing. but for
me i was just coming back home. so, there
was there nothing to get nervous about? what
what motivated that? well there were a lot
things that happened. i am my parents
living with me and you know, they wanted to come
back because they were getting old, they wanted to
be there you know, they've grown up and you know,
it's comfortable here for them. my kids
were growing up and you know, i was getting
a lot of offers from here. so, i came
coming here working going back and i was
finding that very hard to you know
continue doing because it means a lot
off time away from my kids and away
from home. and ah ram was also like him
wanted to do something different.
am he a cardiothoracic surgeon and he
had work 20 years and you know he said i am
operating on people you know after the fact
you know after everything is done and after they
got sick then they came to me and now i am
operating on them and getting them better but
what if i can get them before it happens
so there was something growing in his mind
what he wanted to do you know something that's
different from what he was doing and i
want to come back and everybody likes that
my parents were the men you know deciding
factor and i said okay let's go back let's
let's do this let's go back and let's sleep
we had all the plans and everything you know
before we made the move when you're raging
your children now especially in the age of
social media and you know it's all
it's a horse's time to be a teenager too
be a younger person now than it has ever been
before does that worry you a and that's not a
india or a us thing that's currently just
the way the world is
how that's a
well
you know sometimes you feel
scared for your kids because
not everybody is that strong not everybody
can have you know that
resilience or resilience and that intelligence
to know you know this is this is this is like
okay you don't deal with this what this is
you're dealing with these and that's that
navigation becomes a little difficult for
give them. but i think when
you've given them the values you know like
i grew up with my parents. so
give growth to grandparents. let them learn
much from them. we are trying to impress you
know the best thing that we can do for them.
giving them the values. respect everyone,
you know,
don't take things for granted, work hard
for everything you do. and you know we are
giving them everything we can and we are
trying to raise kids who are strong
kids who can you know stand on their own
feet and kids who can you know we stand
up for themselves you know so we are
trying to do that and we just hope that
once they go into the world they will use dose
tools that we have already you know placed in
front of given them and they will navigate
life ah you know ah according to what we
have tot em. but of course there will be
ups and downs in everybody's life's end
how do you deal with that? becomes you know the
crux of everything. but you're stunning
woman and right now in this hole you know arrow
of social media and the way that young girls
are growing up constantly comparing
themselves. to people that see on screen
there is do you feel that there is more pressure on
on young people to look a certain way even at a
very young age feel that give more pressure on
women have more pressure to do with aging how
do you know what's yours what's yours
message on that point well i would say the
same thing that my mom told me you know
have to be comfortable in your own skin this
is who you are and and
and you don't,
how do i put it? what do you do with your
life is more important than what you look
like? and that one instantly brings you to that
picture. you know what you do with your life.
how you lead your life. you know stay healthy.
that's the most important thing. do good
things. work hard. to just concentrate on
dose aspect of your life. that makes you
who you are. there's there's one sort of
riaz and the habit that still follow you
been doing that through your career?
or dance? i mean give something that i have
to do and
i practice my kathak still. everyday not
everyday. it's not possible everyday. butt
whenever i like twice a week, once a
week and i love to dance. so i might just
take up you know i do shows and i do all
that's because i want to keep dancing. you know
i want to keep in that. because just makes
i feel good. it's very spiritual for me.
it also adds a lot to who you are.
actually for people in their 20s now
who are starting their careers and you
started at 17
what's that one piece of advice you'll give
give them. because you have displayed a career of
longevity over decades where you kept doing
new things. you kept coming back. yu yu
no, you had the stamina to sort of keep
going. what advice would you give someone
starting a career in any job in any love
what you do. and do what you love? because
you'll never tire of it. you'll never feel
like you know you're doing when you're forced to do
then something becomes an issue. but if you
do something you love you're passionate about. i
think you won't work a day in your life. u
will just be excited to go everyday and
do something amazing. you know. you know the person
i've always wanted to ask you about it
mf hussain?
what was he like? we did you spend a
lots of time with him. what really like?
he kept calling you his muse. [laughter] no,
he was really a lovely person. and i
remember he came to visit denver too
my house and he said, i've always seen you
as you know madhuri dixit the actress
and you know everything. now i want to
c madhuri dixit the mother because i had both
my sons at that time. and i said yes you are
most welcome please come. and he came to
visit us and he said oh now i got to
paint. i said no no hussain ji don't do that.
just sit, just relax. you know i will make
you too some t. you can sin t and just
relax and not do anything. this says
why are you punishing me? i said, why?
say i'm most relaxed when i paint. u
no and that's exactly how i feel about
my art. i mean i'm most comfortable
when i'm in front of the camera. when
i'm playing these different characters. i
think i'm most comfortable at that
time and i just kind of i said, hussein
yes, you know, you just made me realize you know,
about myself too. when you said that. and
lovely person and he used to love what he
deed. i mean, every house goes to, hee
just he just put a lot of good will and
laughter and you know, he was his lovely sense of
humor and he used to be like, when he
came to visit me at nothing, he just had a
roll away bag with snow. who and i thought may be
he has his clothes in the roll away bag and
so i came home and i said then i said no
bring the current canvas. i want to paint.
and i'm like, but we'll have to get
paints two. this is not all. here are the
paints. we so the roller i was full of
paints. i said then where are your clothes?
what you gonna wear? so what is this? this
i am wearing a shirt. and inside
he had won his night pajamas inside and he
wearing the shirt and pants on the top because
it was cold in denizens it. so i said,
okay, let's go shopping now. [laughter]
you, i also want to know for someone who
started earning when you were 17, you
manage your own money? did you invest your money
a you know, in your 20s? how did you handle the
money that came with the success?
or the one i'll tell you when i started
working at first you know it was just like
small sums of money and we just did the you
no a little bit of a car took. something like that
did it, did it like this. but once i started
working. i was so busy. i did have time
to do anything. let's look after my money.
so my dad used to do ya. and but i
learn how to manage money and everything after
i got married or that was when i really
started learning how to from my
husband because he is very good at it and
he always teaches me you know about how to
where to invest and how to invest
invest how to find out about companies
and you know all that so i would say that i
new very little about money management
before but a lot now hum. were you talking
about mf husain visiting you in denver
and he said if you keep me away from me
art that's punishing me there had some point
in your heart you fet while you're away
from your art as well because you've taken
quite a substantial break. when i was
living my dream. or it's like
everybody has dreams for themselves. like
you want to do this in the other for me
having a family was a big part of it.
because we are four siblings and we came
from a big family and why i loved kids.
so that's something that really
important. so for me being married,
having kids and having a house. that was
a part of my dream. so when i was
doing that. i was living a dream.
am.
and of course, work is also a very
important part of your life. because
that's your own personal selfish thing that
you want to do. not selfish. butt i wood
that's something that you do or that's why you
feed your soul your soul. so
i felt that i missed my craft.
but i loved every minute of two five years
that was away too. i think it's very
interesting for me because i feel that our
generation of women unlike our mothers. so even
of them did work. but it was really a large
part of their identity. for us are jobs
are really a large part of our identity. so
along with having the family and the children
everything. see these days like we were she
head four kids.
hmm
and she loved to sing. so she was she did her
ba ah bachelor of arts in between like
having two kids she had done that. and then
after having four kids she completed her
master ah ma with vocal hindustani
music. so, she also has given
drive you know towards getting served away.
she, she too loves singing and she too loves to
dance. and that's how we love dance. and she
taught us to dance because she couldn't do it.
when she was little. she was i meant to give
every permission that you can sing but you can't
dance. and when it came to us she was
like, i want my daughters to dance, and she
took us to dance. and she did all that with
looking after the four kids and doing a
thing. so when you see that in your own house
it kind of
creates that discipline in you you know you
you learn from your parents and that
what i learned from her date how she managed
everything and yet did something that she loved
we unfortunately lost dharmendra ji this
week you mean you met him multiple times
because you all work to the same industry
also work together briefly yes i mean in
one of the films like we have little kids
time when we work to him and what a
gentleman i mean i've met him i used
to love his song pal pal dil ke paas tum
you remain so for me dharmendra was that you
no handsome man and striking man and
then when i met him i was like tongue
tied and i told him i said i was big
fan of yours and and he so he was so
he was gentle and a nice person.
sweet down to earth and very grounded you
no end so great admiration for him and
it's we've lost a big star you
no we have lost a very big star and not
just that lovely person
madhuri ji thank you so much for spending
time with me and answering all my questions
and i wish you very very good luck and all
the best for mrs. desh pandey i am it's
going to be a massive hit thank you so much thank you
u