michael phelps, of course, is the most
decorated olympian of all time. if he
was a country, he would have the third
most swimming medal ever.
>> where did this obsession of winning come
from?
>> hating to lose. i hate to lose more than
i enjoy winning.
>> how did this come up?
>> one thing my coach took out of my
vocabulary was the word can't because
it's going to be exponentially harder
since you told yourself you can't. 28
medals, the second youngest male swimmer
to qualify for a us olympic team.
>> and what goes on in your head before
even the race is start
>> when i'm on the block? nothing. i'm like
a dog trying to get out of the cage.
like i'm just
>> do you use any psychological warfare
sort of tactic against your competitors?
>> i'm taking care of me and i'm focusing
on what i need in that moment. i don't
give a [ __ ] about my competitors in that
moment. when i'm on the pool deck, it is
a full-blown war.
i want to absolutely destroy some.
>> was there anyone you secretly feared as
a competitor?
>> no, i beat everybody. i don't care who
you are. i'm the shark in the water. i
smell that smallest ounce of blood. i'm
going to destroy.
>> watch me take it.
>> tell me about that phase which is your
2008 beijing where you won eight gold
medals.
>> history in beijing for michael. eight
for eight.
>> like those two years i felt unbeatable
in the pool. i literally felt like there
wasn't a single soul on the planet that
could touch me, that could beat me.
>> explaining an interview which you gave,
the interviewer asks you that you've won
28 olympic medals in your life and you
said no, just 23 that count.
>> i meddled in 28 out of 30 of my races at
the olympic games. 23 are only the ones
that we need to talk about. uh,
>> silver is losing.
>> we are second. you lost. third place,
you lost. i don't talk about the other
five.
>> it's going to be gold. it's going to be
a new world record. once i did make that
olympic team, when i got fifth, i was
pissed because i didn't want a piece of
paper that somebody said,
"congratulations, you came and
competed." i came because i wanted
something around my neck.
>> i'm there to hear my national anthem
play. that's it.
>> tell me the first time you won the gold
medal.
>> i couldn't get caught up in that one
moment, even though it was special. so
that gold medal is like, "all right,
finished. what's next?"
walk me through four, five techniques or
certain things that you would do in that
five, six years of training where you
were truly preparing to win gold. we'd
start in the morning with a training
session,
eat plates of food for breakfast, go
home, take a nap, wake up, eat something
else, go back to the pool, go home, eat,
sleep, wake up, and do it all over
again.
>> every day for 6 years.
>> 6 year stretch where i didn't miss a
single day. a lot of people say why and
i say why not. there wasn't a single
person on this planet during those 20
years pretty much in my career that was
more prepared than me. that's why i got
the results that i got.
five olympic games, 28 medals, 23 of
them gold, 39 world records. if this man
was a country, he would have been the
third highest
country with the medals. there is no
other human being. there is no other
athlete in the world who has achieved
this much in a single sport as much as
this person has achieved. he's a beast.
he's a maniac. he's achieved numbers
that no human has ever touched. he's
achieved numbers that might never be
touched again. and for 6 years straight,
this man trained every single day. no
sundays off, no holidays, no christmas,
nothing, no excuses.
how did he build this beast wild
mindset? while the world was moving, he
was training like a maniac. he was
obsessed trying to be better, faster
just by 1 second, just by half a second.
and today on figuring out, we're sitting
with this beast, the absolute goat. it's
an honor to do the podcast with michael
phelps, the greatest athlete, the
greatest olympian, the athlete which has
never existed before and the world has
never seen. and in this conversation,
we're going to figure out what it
actually takes to absolutely become the
champion and to build a mindset of a
beast so that you kill it every time you
enter the arena. this podcast is like
the masterclass of an athlete mindset.
if you want to win this year, watch this
till the end.
>> you know, actually before i even i even
start this,
how about
for 0.01% 01% people who have no clue
who you are. why don't you tell us,
michael, who are you?
>> i was a swimmer at one point in my life.
um,
won a couple gold medals, broke a couple
world records. um, competed in five
olympic games.
uh, i'm a father of four now. i have
four boys, nine, seven, six, and almost
two.
um,
yeah. and i think a lot of what i try to
do now is is really promote healthy and
active lifestyles, whether that's water
safety with my foundation. um, or it's
really trying to open up the world to
the importance of mental health. um, you
know, i think for me going through what
i went through the tail end of my
career, um, really helped me explore
more about who i am. um, but also i
think with me showing my vulnerability
and opening up and talking about the
struggles that i go through, i've been
able to hear others or see others that
have become vulnerable around me and
shared what they go through. um, and for
me, i think the second part is way
bigger than the first part. um, because
the second part we're dealing with life
and death. the first part was awesome.
like, don't get me wrong, it was
incredible hearing my my national anthem
play and, you know, winning a bunch of
gold medals, but, you know, the fact
that life and death is also in play with
so many people. i think i i just read a
stat, my wife just sent it to me
yesterday. it was,
this is kind of crazy to me. suicide's
the second leading cause of death for
people 10 to 34.
so for me, that's why i say the second
part is so much it's so much bigger. um,
you know, just being again being able to
save a life uh is a thousand times
better than winning an olympic gold
medal. um, and for me, just being able
to have the platform that i had that i
have um to give me the chance to to
speak what i'm passionate about is is
really special.
>> let's try to understand both the phases
of your life.
>> part one, part two.
>> but before we go there, i want to
understand something about you when you
were a child. like from the beginning
tell me what do i need to understand
about you when you were 10 years old you
were unable to sit in a class you saw
your parents uh relationship falling off
you were restless
and not able to just cope up with
everything which normal kids do
>> what do i need to understand about that
michael
>> um
>> which helps me understand everything
that came after
>> yeah i mean i think for me uh, you know,
going back even before 10, you know,
when i was 7 years old, i was, you know,
non-stop kind of bouncing off the wall,
you know, i was always around the pool.
my my two older sisters swam, so i was
around the pool all the time. so, water
safety was
uh something that was a big priority for
my mother and and you know, once i was
in the water and i was safe there, you
know, i was kind of playing around the
pool all the time. so that's when i got
into the water and then the water was
kind of a release for me. um, you know,
being able to
kind of swim as hard as you want to go
faster with, you know, anger, if you
might have it, was something that i
enjoyed. um, yeah, it wasn't great
dealing with anger as a 7 8 n 10year-old
kid. um, but for me it was an outlet.
um, and it was something that that you
know i ended up falling in love with.
and uh yeah, i mean i i remember in
uh middle school
i was told uh by my teachers that i
would never by excuse me by a teacher uh
that i would never amount to anything.
um and i still remember her name and and
uh i still remember what she looks like.
i still remember where i was sitting in
the class. um and and i think at that
point for me i used it as motivation. um
you know the the fact that a teacher
number one would say they're doubting a
student and not knowing how to deal with
them i think is saddening. it's
upsetting. um but for me i was like
watch this. i'm going to prove you. uh,
and i think at the time that was pretty
much when i
had stopped taking um, rolin, which was
for my adhd. uh, so my adhd, i literally
was like i was all over the place. i was
leaning back in the chair, on the back
legs, leaving dents on the on the floor
in the classroom, always getting sent to
the principal's office. and honestly, i
just had a really hard time sitting
still. um, and at that point my mom was,
you know, i was playing baseball, i was
playing lacrosse, i was playing soccer,
and i was swimming. i was playing all
these different sports just to try to
get the energy out of me. my mom is just
like, i don't know what to do with them.
um, and it's crazy. fast forward now to
where i'm 40 and i have four kids. it's
the same way. their kids are non-stop.
um, but i think, you know, going back to
that point, i i think swimming really
gave me
something to focus on. um, yeah, i was
that well, i still am that kind of add,
kind of all over the place, jittery,
like kind of always moving around. like
that's just who i am. that's my
personality. so, you know, i think over
time i naturally took something that
somebody labeled me with having or being
a less than of a kid. i took that into
into almost really making it a
superpower. um, because it gave me the
ability to focus on things that i was
really passionate about.
>> um,
>> so your teacher said she must have
noticed and the rest of the world just
noticed how you were as a kid who were
restless, not able to sit anywhere. what
do you think
that teacher didn't get or the world
didn't get about that kid who was not
able to sit properly? because
>> you definitely had something in you and
you
>> i just thought she didn't know how to
whether it's a lack of better way of
saying it like i didn't i don't think
she wanted to deal with me or knew how
to deal with me or knew how to handle me
or kne or knew how to taught me teach
me, right? like she didn't she just
didn't know. um, and you know, like for
me, like my mother has been in education
for 50 years, you know, like that's her
passion. her passion is being in the
classroom to try to make an impact for a
student, to try to help them take
whatever they're learning in that year
or that classroom and catapult it to
help them into the rest of their life,
to help transform them into what they
want to be. and all of those steps need
to happen. but when a teacher, you know,
instantly shuts down on a kid, it just
doesn't look good for the teacher. um,
but i mean,
i think i got like a c in her class. so,
like, let's be honest.
>> i was kind of like, just get me out of
here, you know? like, that was my least
least favorite class that i went to
every single day. and i was
>> english. i hated english, you know, and
and maybe it was how she was teaching it
to me because i had teachers that were
great, you know, like i had teachers
throughout my my
uh elementary, middle, and high school
where they were awesome and they helped
me understand when i had problems
learning what everybody else was
learning faster than what i was
learning. or if i was learning things
faster than everybody else, then she
gave me he or she gave me stuff to help
me stay focused, right? like that. i i
think it's just
everybody has a different mind and
everybody is able to handle or control
as much as they can. um and she just
didn't know what to do. uh it was sad
and i'm sure there still are teachers
out there in the world that are like
that and it is it is unfortunate. it is
sad. um but to the kids out there who do
have an experience like that, know that
there are other outcomes that can happen
in life. um, i mean, people doubted me
in the swimming pool, too. and honestly,
like for me, again, it was just it was a
form of motivation. that was it, you
know? like, if somebody wants to doubt
me, like i've been on this kick lately
where i've just been firing off quotes
on instagram, just like on my story,
just ripping quotes off that just like
hit me in the morning.
>> and i'm like i'm i'm a big quotes
person. and and you know, like
throughout my career, my coach would
always put quotes on the top of the
workout. um motivating quotes or just
quotes that people need to hear or that
for me that i need to hear um you know
for for whatever you're going through
life. so yeah, i can
>> which one's your favorite quote now?
>> i mean my my favorite quote is actions
speak louder than words, you know, like
that's that's one of my all-time
favorite handsown quotes because it it's
true, you know, like you can say
whatever you want, but if your actions
don't back up those words, then all it
is is just a bold-faced lie, you know?
so, you know, for me, like throughout my
career, like i i wanted to, you know,
break this world record, win this gold
medal, whatever it was. and i knew that
there had to be a process on how to get
there, right? like, i can't just say it
and snap my fingers. there had to be,
you know, every single day little baby
things that were stacked on top of each
other and little baby steps that were
heading towards that goal. and if i was
taking steps backwards, then i'm just
cheating myself.
what what do you think? you said water
became your escape and you were just
always in the pool taking out your anger
and everything like it it became your
coping mechanism in some sort and you
were always in the pool, right?
>> what do you think? what did water give
you emotionally which nothing else
could?
>> um i mean my kids call me aquaman now so
i guess it's kind of fitting. um you
know i i don't know. i think thinking
back to it and, you know, kind of being
able to dive through my career a little
bit inside the pool, um, i was super
sensitive to every little part of the
water on my body, right? so, like when i
would swim, i'm feeling the water in the
palm of my hands. like that's where i'm
feeling all the pressure. so, if my
shoulder or my my arm or my body is not
a certain way, then i'm not able to feel
that. so, it's all trial and error and
trying to get into the right position.
um, and naturally i think you know for
me just being submerged in water i just
felt at home. um i don't know for lack
of better terms like you know even be
even like now if i go into a big
depression state or i'm just in a
grouchy mood for a couple of days and
workout hasn't helped and you know my
normal routine hasn't helped whether
it's the cold tub or the sauna you know
i'll just get you know my wife will just
kick me out of the house and say go go
go jump in the swimming pool um because
it's it's kind of like the only place
where i i don't have anybody body
talking to me. i don't have to think
about stroke. i don't have to think
about what i'm having for dinner or what
i'm making for dinner or what i'm doing
tomorrow or this or that. i'm just there
in the moment, right? like i can just be
and i can swim for 500, which is i mean
minimal compared to what i used to swim.
um or i could swim 2,000. it doesn't
matter. like just being able to be back
in the water, being back into that
environment, i think is kind of one of
my reset switches. um, that kind of just
levels me out.
>> do you think you were running away from
something
>> or you were you were swimming away from
something or swimming towards something?
>> i think i found swimming, yeah, as an
outlet. but i think, you know, the
reason why i found swimming is my two
older sisters swam as well. so, you
know, for me, kind of seeing what they
were doing and my middle sister whitney
was traveling all over the world and she
was on world championship teams. i was
like, "wow, that seems pretty cool."
like, she was trying to go to the
olympic games. and i was like, "yeah, i
want to go to the olympic games." like,
hell yeah. like, who doesn't want to go
to the olympic games? um, and i just
kind of followed and and you know,
naturally as a kid, if you learn that
you get good or you start getting
faster,
you kind of think how fast can i get?
and that's kind of what i did, you know,
like from the start until the end of my
career, i was kind of like, all right,
how how much faster can i get? can i
drop a second? can i drop a half a
second? can i drop two tents? like what
is the maximum potential that i have
inside of me and how can i challenge
myself in different ways? um, swimming
for me like again like i would scream
underwater. you can't hear me. like i
would call my coach every single [ __ ]
name on the planet. like sorry for
profanity, but like like i literally
would like because there were times
where i was so frustrated and so angry
and there was nothing else i could do.
whether it was like i my body was in
pain, i i mentally couldn't do it or i
felt like i couldn't do it. um i would
just scream and then naturally i would
still get through it and it would go
well and blah blah blah blah blah. but
it's like in that moment like for me
screaming was one of those things i
would just let everything out. um, and
it's something of like, you know, we've
taught our kids. um, again, we have four
boys and and the emotions get high. so,
you know, we taught them this thing
called a lion breath where you take a
deep breath and you roar like a lion and
you scream as loud as you can. and again
with i mean the younger one doesn't
scream that much but like the three
older ones it's a lot of noise but it's
again like we find once they're able to
do that their shoulders drop a little
bit and they're able to have that
conversation of what big feelings
emotions they're going through inside
instead of carrying them along through
life.
>> can you show me what is it like? what's
the lion breath?
>> oh you don't want me to scream in here.
>> it's okay. you can just show like a
little bit of a small version of it.
obviously,
you can scream as loud as you want, but
it's it's literally just take a big big
big deep breath in and just scream as
loud as you possibly can. and naturally,
like naturally when when you do that,
your shoulders do drop a little bit,
right? you are able to kind of come back
to earth, right? be your normal self.
like i always joke there was uh the
candy the snicker bars commercial. um,
it's always they they always show them
here, but it's it's a commercial where
it's like you take a bite of a snickers
and you just feel like your normal self.
like i feel like that's what that's what
it is. like what snickers is saying like
when you have a sugar low, you eat some
sugar and naturally you feel better. but
here it's like if you're stressed or
you're frustrated and you take that deep
breath, you're able to be like, okay, so
why am i going through that? what
feelings and emotions am i going
through? and you're able just to get it
all out. like for me it's, you know,
there are a bunch of different things
that i do. um i don't do lion breast
that often, but uh when i'm in the pool,
it's very easy to do it. um but yeah, i
mean there there's a checklist that i
have for my own mental health.
>> so you were so you used to scream inside
the pool a lot.
>> oh,
>> or like underwater like underwater,
right? like when i was going and taking
like when i was doing my streamlines off
the wall and i was kicking underwater. i
would
>> there were a lot of fbombs that were
said. yeah. that was one of my favorite
words to scream underwater. and people
could hear it honestly like when you're
in a set like person next to me be like,
"did you just scream?" and you're like,
"mhm, i did. i did." they're like, "all
right, we have one more." and you're
like, "yep, we got one more repeat.
let's go." um, but it's it's just it's
kind of like in the moment like i feel
like i needed i needed to do that just
to get through. um, and everybody i
think probably has something different,
right? but that that was just me. it was
screaming underwater. it's same thing
like when i'm in the weight room now
like i i was just traveling overseas and
and i was lifting in i think it was
mumbai and i was in the weight room and
i was like grunting. was like and like
everybody in the gym like looked at me
and i was like oh sh and i'm looking
into a mirror and everybody's face is
staring right at you. um but it's just
kind of something that i do. um i mean i
used to do it right when i get up onto
the block,
>> you know, right after i did my arm slap.
it was something that i would always do
just clear my throat.
>> so is it you were screaming a lot
because you were obsessed with trying to
win or was it
>> a lot of different things? it was
probably yeah. i wanted to win. i wanted
to push through whatever i was going
through or i was emotionally just ready
to snap and screaming was something that
would help me.
>> where did this obsession of winning come
from? was it
>> hating to lose?
>> but
>> i hate to lose more than i enjoy
winning.
>> even when you were like 9, 10, 11,
>> how did this come up?
>> i don't know. it was just something i
always had. like i always felt from from
when i was a little kid like there was
there was there was no second place.
that wasn't an option. it's just
something that i always i mean like i
remember winning home run derby at 10 or
11 years old. like i was the biggest kid
playing lacrosse, playing long stick
midi. um just slashing people with the
stick. um yeah, i mean winning was
everything. yeah. do you think it has
anything to do with not getting your
father's approval when you were a kid?
>> um, the absence of
>> i don't think so. uh, because i i mean i
would say a lot of it probably came from
him. um, because he was he was kind of
more of the athlete from my parents'
relationship. he was a baseball player,
a football player, track and field stud.
um he i think he was the first person to
get cut from uh the washington redskins
back in the day uh when they were the
redskins. so um winning or trying to be
the best was something that that in
sports was something that he was he was
very good at. like competition in sports
that that was something that he excelled
in. um, i would say my sister whitney
and i are
uberly competitive, more competitive
than my older sister hillary. um,
especially in sports. um, there's
there's just yeah, i mean, for us,
again, there was just there was no
second place.
um,
you know, for me, it ended up becoming
preparation, right? like preparation is
everything. if you're not prepared, then
you're going to get second or you're
going to get third or you're going to
get last, right? because there's always
somebody that is overly prepared or more
prepared than you are, no matter what.
>> so for me, i just became that person.
there wasn't a planet or there wasn't
there wasn't a single person on this
planet
during those 20 years pretty much of my
career. you know, i had a couple losses
that i can name for through my olympic
career.
but there wasn't another person on this
planet that was more prepared than me.
not period. there wasn't. that's why i
got the results that i got. it's not
rocket science. it's not. i put in the
work. i got the results. that's it.
>> let's let's go to your preparation time
and like when you first started with
your coach.
>> yeah. and
first when your coach spotted you
in the same year, he went to your mother
and said that you're going to win an
olympics or you're going to be in the
olympics, right? what was that story?
tell me about it.
>> my coach came to north baltimore aquatic
club where i was swimming or my sister
swim long tradition of uh of excellence
with that club in baltimore. um,
you know, from
1984
until
2016,
there was at least one person on every
single olympic team.
>> wow. so, my coach came in 96 or right
before 96, maybe 95.
>> okay.
>> um,
and he was helping my sister's group a
little bit. uh my middle sister's group
a little bit prepare for uh olympic
trials in the olympic games in 96 and
then the group kind of split and he took
over a different group. i think i'm
think i'm explaining this right way. um
and then i remember seeing him while i
was that kid playing at the pool, you
know, i was only swimming like three
days a week. like i really wasn't
training that much back then.
and i would always play, play, play. and
i would see him go up and down the pool,
walk, run, arms up in the air,
screaming, whistling. and i was like,
like i remember being like, you know,
like if it was me back then what i was
thinking, i would be like, there's no
[ __ ] chance i'm swimming for that
man. like he is an absolute lunatic.
fast forward a year.
i spent 20 years 20 plus years of my
life with that man and he is my only
coach. um but it's kind of crazy because
you know seeing it you know i think at
that age i was like man like truly like
this guy's nuts. um but what i learned
it was just the passion that he has and
that he that he had back then that he
still has today. um
>> but did he come to you or you went to
him? so, uh, i was i was excelling in
the group that i was in and and i needed
to be in a higher group and and i was 11
years old at this time and the kids that
were in that group were like 14, 15, 18
years old, like way older, way more
mature. um, but i was faster than them.
so i i ended up swimming in that group
and and i got to that group and and but
before i got there, my coach sat down
with my parents and i and he's like,
"well, look, like if if you know your
son wants to make the olympic team in
four years, he can make the olympic
team."
>> as an 11 i was 11 years old,
>> but he's like, he said that to me and
he's like, "but look," he's like, "you
got to stop playing baseball, lacrosse,
and soccer."
but for me like looking back now like
those playing those four different
sports
i think naturally gave me a better body
awareness like the more i talk to the
professional athletes from all sports
all walks of life now that's the same
thing they did playing multiple sports
don't be super hyperfocused on one sport
but at a certain time there's then going
to be a decision that you have to make
it it's it's just naturally i feel like
that's how it is in sports if you really
want to be the best at one sport
there's it you have to make a decision
at some point. um just because of the
process of development this that and the
other. um but back then yeah he he sat
down and said that and i was like all
right kind like fine like i'll stop
playing these other sports. i'll focus
on swimming. no problem. and i just
remember back then i i i was i was the
energizer bunny. like he basically would
wind me up and i would just go or he
would say jump and i would say how high.
um because he gave me that vision of
wanting to go to the olympic games to
then make the dream of winning an
olympic gold medal
even bigger because you know i just
thought about going and then i'm like
maybe i could win right like that would
be pretty cool. when you were 11 and he
said that to you for the first time that
you could go to olympics in next four
years. did you believe it or did you act
act like someone who believed it until
it actually became true?
>> uh i believed it because he showed
confidence in me
>> as an 11year-old.
>> something that he saw of me in the pool
gave him confidence that he could do
that. he had already trained and worked
with previous olympic coaches, olympic
athletes, and he saw something. um, and
honestly, i think back to the question
you asked earlier, you know, he then
became a father figure in my life,
right? because
i mean, i literally spent 25 years
traveling the world with him, right? so,
i mean, like basically my whole entire
life was handinhand with him. everything
we did swimming related was together.
um, and and you know, i think once i did
make that olympic team, that really
really made me trust him because i was
like like like for me because i know you
said don't skip, but like when i made
that olympic team and i got fifth,
i was pissed, but i was hungry, right?
because i didn't want a piece of paper
that somebody said, "congratulations,
you came and competed." it's not why i
came. i came because i wanted something
around my neck. that's it. so, i
remember that day after my olympic final
in sydney, the workout paper he wrote
down, it said wr on the top of it. and
for people who don't know, that means
world record.
and i was like, "what's this?" he goes,
"you're going to break a world record in
6 months."
i was like, "okay, sure. let's see what
happens.
sure enough, six months later, i break a
world record. so, like again, like
that's where the whole trust really
really opened up. um but but you know, i
think through you know, from the time i
got with him to the time i was 15,
he basically just broke my strokes
completely apart.
um like he started from scratch. uh, you
know, i i had some good things going on
with my body and how i swam and the
reach. obviously, i have super long
arms, long wingspan. short legs, really
strong legs. um, short but wide. my my
quads are huge. um,
so for me, like when i got to him at 11
years old, i i still remember back in
the day. so the people who don't
understand swimming, a six beat kick is
three kicks per one stroke. so it's one,
two, three with your legs per one
stroke. so he was teaching me the
importance of a six beat kick. it wasn't
at 11. i forget what age it was, but um
he said, "every time you drop your legs
in a practice and you don't do a six
beat kick, i'm going to kick you out."
and the first day i got through like 500
of a 6,000 yard workout. kicked me out.
next day 2,000 kicked me out. next day
2500, kicked me out. next day 3,000
kicked me out. next day 4,000 kicked me
out. by the end of the week, i got to a
full workout. and from that day forward,
i never dropped my feet for a single
stroke of freestyle for the rest of my
career.
did i agree with what he was doing? no.
it sucked getting kicked out. it was
absolutely miserable sitting there
watching my friends train and and and be
in a practice. but i learned the
importance of the small technical points
that you have to have in order to be
able to go wherever you want to go,
right? like it's almost like a college
level class. you can't take the thousand
level class without taking the one
through nine, right? like, so there's a
process through it all. and he taught me
that process throughout my career and we
were able just to sharpen up those
tools, right? like that's really all it
became. um because, you know, throughout
my career, we ended ended up just trying
to shave off hundreds of a second. how
do you shave off 5100s of a second?
>> is it a turn? is it a kick? is it a
streamline? what is it? is it dive
angle? like h what how do we do it right
so it's trial and error but it all
started from those years
um when we first started working
together i mean whether it was mindset
whether it was goal setting whether it
was preparation routines
um you know that's where stretching came
into play all that stuff to to just get
your body prepared um my warm-ups were
the same at every single meet from the
time that i was 13 or 14 to the time i
retired it didn't change. 8642 or 6442
every single warm-up.
>> who was more ambitious? you or your
coach?
>> uh,
you could probably say both of us at
different stages of my career
because i think leading up to 2008,
i don't think there was anybody more
ambitious than me. post like ' 04 or '
08 to 2012, he was way more ambitious.
he wanted and i just wanted nothing to
do with the sport. um, and then when i
came back, i think we both wanted it.
when i came back to finish in 16, um, we
were both equally as hungry and wanting
to do
or wanting to finish, i guess, what we
had started the right way. um because i
mean i i've said this and i'll say it a
thousand times more. like there's not a
coach on this planet that could have
helped me
coached me to be able to do what i was
able to do. not a single person. i was
an [ __ ] i was a little [ __ ] to
coach. i know it. and he'd say it too.
um and i'd say the same about him. but,
you know, i think again like it's the
passion that we had and and we learned a
lot about each other through the
process, right? it was, you know, he had
to adapt, i had to adapt cuz i wasn't
that 11-year-old kid that he once
started working with when i was 30,
>> right? so,
>> just that change that we had to go
through was was
um was important for us to have the the
relationship that we had for as long as
we had. you your coach also said people
around you everybody to not to say the
word olympic. what was when was that?
what was that story?
>> i mean my mom when i made the olympic
team in 2000 she like fully decorated
the front yard with like all these
american flags and like this that and
the other. and my mom was or my coaches
bob goes this is the last time you're
ever going to do this.
>> never again. um,
>> and and i think because it's like
>> i mean i think looking back at it now i
would say because the goal wasn't just
to make the olympic team. that wasn't
the goal. the goal was to win an olympic
gold medal. not just be a part of the
olympic games, but win the olympic
games, be a champion at the olympic
games. so, i think once you get caught
up in just making the olympic team, then
sometimes you might slip and not pay
attention to the small details that are
going to help you be your best self at
the olympic games, right? like i i mean,
i see it in i see it with athletes that
have been on olympic teams with me,
right? like they have this dream of
making an olympic team. it's making an
that's it. just getting there. it's not
actually
doing my best time at the olympic games
and potentially coming home with
hardware. that was my goal from day one
when i had my first olympic race.
>> you got to go.
>> yes. but it's how do i get faster than
my trials swim, right? for me, i wanted
to drop. so, in the us, we have olympic
trials and top two people in each
individual event get to go. there's over
2,000 swimmers that at that olympic
trials and a maximum of 52 people will
be on olympic team. 52 out of 2000 plus
>> and those 2,000 will also come from like
>> all over the place. yeah. so like but
like you know i think it it's just like
god i just lost a train of thought. what
was i talking about?
>> you're talking about your olympic
>> oh yeah. yeah. okay. now i got it. um
>> you always wanted to just win the medal.
so yeah, but like for me like when i
made my first olympic team in 2000, it
was about
dropping a second from olympic trials to
the olympic games. drop one second. if i
can do that, then i'm in i'm in the
realm of winning an olympic medal,
right? so
i dropped 981 100s of a second and i
missed a medal by less than 3/10.
and i had to wait another four years to
have another chance.
>> how did you feel like you were 15 when
you entered olympics? you were the
youngest in the world to do that.
>> youngest since 1932.
>> and then you you end up coming fifth,
sixth, fifth. how did you feel? first
time 15year-old youngest person fifth.
>> pissed.
upset. they gave me a piece of paper
like you have in front of you that says,
"good job. you competed. you got fifth.
i don't want to get fifth. i'm not there
to get fifth. i'm not i'm there to hear
my national anthem play. that's it. i
mean, obviously that was a stretch for
me at that time. but i think having that
opportunity of getting fifth and
representing my country and being at the
biggest stage at such a young age, i
think just only prepared me naturally
for what was going to come.
>> but you messed up in your first olympics
game, right? i think you you forgot your
paper.
>> oh, yeah. i forgot my credential. well,
i didn't forget my credential. i took my
roommates's credential. um, i was
roommates with another one of the
younger guys in the team and and uh i we
had our credentials just on like the
handle of a door and i just ended up
grabbing his instead of mine. we look
nothing alike. so, uh i ended up going
to the pool and they wouldn't let me in
the pool. i didn't have my credential.
i tried to go back to the village and i
couldn't get on the bus or get back in
the village because i didn't have a
photo of me on my credential.
so, that kind of delayed my warm-up and
my process of getting ready um the
slightest bit. and i mean, i don't think
that threw me off. i mean, because still
i
>> didn't even tie my suit before the race.
my my strings of my suit were just
tucked into my like the top of my suit,
which is i mean, they're not going to
fall off. the suits are so tight and so
small. they are not going to fall off.
no shot. but i mean, i just wasn't
prepared. you know, i think the biggest
thing i learned from that moment is is
just understanding what needs to take
place at the most pressured moment,
right? you know, like for me, yeah, i've
gone to the olympic trials, but i never
experience what an olympic games was,
what a swim meet on different soil feels
like. and especially in australia where
swimming is the number one sport, right?
i mean, the floor was shaking. i
remember it vividly. the floor was
shaking because there was an australian
in my heat next to me who ended up
getting third. i mean, like literally
like the it was it was vibrating. there
was 18,000 people on one side and then
all the media and the dignitaries were
on the left. and yeah, i mean like
everything just threw me off. like
>> what was going on in your mind? i was a
deer in headlights, just scared, not
really knowing what the hell to do, but
i knew that i had to just get up on the
block and race. um, and that was
something that, you know, still to this
day, like i miss like i i loved i loved
competing. i loved racing more than
anything on the planet. a chance for me
to get up versus the rest of the world
or versus the like my teammates, my
competitors in the us and have a chance
to show who is the best. yes. every
single time because naturally like i'll
always go to that that next level
because i i i don't like to lose. so
yeah, getting fifth it was terrible. it
sucked. but again, like i truly believe
had i got a medal
2004 might have been different,
>> right? you know, like me falling short
of a goal there
probably gave me more motivation to rip
into that next four years to make sure i
don't have that feeling again. i don't
have that sadness or that disappointment
again. yeah, it took me a lot to just to
make the olympic team, but still like
getting there again. you got to wait
four years.
i don't want to wait another four years.
so again, like i want everything to be
perfect when i have that chance. and i
think having 2000, i think gave me the
chance to do my trial run in 2004 to
prepare for what was to come in 2008.
>> so when you when you came fifth with a
paper, you came home and now you're
like,
>> i don't even know where that paper is.
>> whatever that thing was, right?
>> honestly, like it's just like a like a
participation.
>> like it's just like here and i'm like
>> i don't want it. and then you came home
and you're thinking like 2004 is going
to be my year. i'm going to come back
home with gold medal. if i could place a
camera in your head, what was going on
in your head? like first day when you
just came back from
>> well, i knew it. you know, like back to
that story of getting back into training
the day after, you know, that's
something that that naturally athletes
don't do coming off an olympic games,
right? like you you kind of
take that four weeks like 2 to four,
four to six weeks, four to eight weeks
kind of just to recover to get back into
that cycle um to prepare for an olympic
games. but for me it was right back into
it because i in the sport of swimming
when you miss one day it takes you two
days to get back to where you were. so
if you miss two months, it's going to
take you four months to get back to
where you were. so for me, from 2000
into 2001, i didn't miss a step, right?
i was right back into training. i mean,
i went back into training. i mean, i
would say i probably did a 5k, over 5k.
i think i did like 8200s or 10200s
backstroke long course in lane one in
the sydney warm-up pool the day after
the 200 fly in 2000.
and on the top of the paper it said wr
in 6 months at nationals. and i went to
nationals 6 months later which are world
championship trials
um for that following summer in japan.
and the last 50 i came back on the
existing world record holder at the
time, tom malachchow, and i ran him down
with 10 15 meters to go. um, and i broke
the world record, 15492.
um, and that kind of catapulted me into
that next summer. i won my first world
championship at 16 and rebroke the world
record. um, and then from that point
forward, rebroke it in 2002, rebroke it
in 2003, rebroke it in 2004 when i won
the gold medal. um, it was just, did i?
no, i didn't break it. i didn't break it
in 2000. not not winning the gold medal,
but i did break it in that year. in that
calendar year, i just went on a tear.
um, and i think kind of once i got that
taste of success, like i was saying
earlier, that was, you know, for me it
was what else can i do? how much faster
can i go? and i think that's when we
started expanding and swimming different
events, right? like i was swimming the
200 im. i started swimming the 400 im,
the 100 fly, the 200 free, the 200 back.
um, in 2008 i was the american record
holder in the 100 freestyle. um, i just
became super versatile and that was
something that we started back early
when i was working with bob. um, because
we had a goal back then of trying to be
top 10 in the world in every single
stroke,
butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and
freestyle.
>> but you took four days off from 2000 to
2004
>> pretty. yeah. because i had wisdom teeth
>> and i think maybe like i wouldn't even
say i got sick. like i i mean even if i
was sick, i was still in the water. i
was still training. um
>> because you're so obsessed with training
and you believe that even one day off is
going to take you two days back. why why
do you even take 4 days off then?
>> well, i had to uh i mean i had to later
in my career for certain surgeries. i
had hand surgeries throughout my career.
um, but i think at that point it was if
i'm not taking the opportunity that i
have, then somebody else is going to
take that opportunity away from me. and
i want the opportunity to be mine. so
for me, it was, you know, i think it was
all about control. what can you control?
i can control not getting sick by taking
care of my body, right? so i think
naturally over time i learned how to
take care of my body.
>> but did you feel guilty
>> on the days when you were off? do you
feel bad? like [ __ ] like
>> it sucks. yeah. like i mean it sucked
because i was missing an opportunity and
a chance, but once you're going through
surgery, if you have surgery, then it's
kind of like you need to give your body
some kind of recovery. um
i don't think it really hurt taking
those days off. um because i think then
after that it was like i went on a
six-year stretch where i didn't miss a
single day. um,
and a lot of people say why, and i say
why not, right? there's no blueprint on
how to win eight gold medals. there's no
blueprint on how to break 39 world
records. there's no blueprint on how to
win 23 olympic gold medals. um, the only
thing you can do is trial and error.
>> and for me, yeah, i mean, i i would say
i became obsessed, but i think it's that
fine line between obsession and
passionate that i always flirted with.
um, and i i was over i was overly
passionate about trying to be the
absolute best. you know, for me at such
a young age, i i i had a goal of of
doing something that no one has ever
done in the sport and also changing the
sport and taking it to a new level. so,
there wasn't going to be anybody that
was going to stand in my way of doing
that. you know, i i looked up to michael
jordan and what he did, you know, on the
court of or on the basketball court and
and you know, no matter what he was
going through physically, mentally,
personally, um you know, when he was out
there performing, he left every single
ounce on the basketball court. you know,
he had the flu and the flu game still
dropped what, 50, 40, 45. like, yeah,
right. like there was just no excuses,
right? so, um for me, every single day
is an opportunity to get better. no
matter how yesterday went, if you had a
bad day yesterday, today is a different
day. period. that's it. you can't live
in the past and you can't live in the
future. the only thing you can do is
live in the present. walk me through
four or five techniques or certain
things that you would do in that five,
six years of training where you were
truly preparing to win gold. you know,
i'll tell before you actually go there,
i'll tell you one of the most watched
michael phelps video is a clip by me
which is funny on the internet because i
was researching for this this uh podcast
and i i typed on youtube the most
watched michael fip and in that clip i'm
explaining where in one interview he
said that there was there was a phase in
your life probably six seven years where
somebody's asking you that what was the
what's the reason of your success? why
do you win? and you say just train every
day.
>> yeah.
>> and they say
>> it's the small things. yeah. i mean
>> and then you said no train every day.
>> yeah.
>> no christmas.
>> yeah.
>> no party, nothing, no flute, just train
every day. and that that clip is really
for some reason.
>> explain me what happens in those six
years.
>> i mean it's it's it basically really is
what can you control? what is in your
control every single day? and it's like
you're eating, you're sleeping, you're
drinking water, you're stretching if
you're sore, you're lifting if you're
trying to get stronger, you're working
on your endurance and staying in your
endurance level, working on heart rate
if that's what you're trying to improve.
there are so many different little small
things that you can do depending on what
your goals are.
so for me, it's it's how can i be
prepared every single day, right? so
like if i go back to that point, you
know, after the 2000 olympic games, like
it wasn't, you know, it was probably
2002, 2003 where i started doing ice
tubs, right? so it's recovery. how can i
how can i recover my body and my mind
every single day to make sure that my
body, if i'm treating it like a ferrari
and i want it to go that fast every
single day,
i have to recover. i have to treat my
body with with love, right? so, if i'm
not eating, if i'm not stretching, if
i'm not drinking water, if i'm not
sleeping, if i'm not staying off my
feet, if i'm not all of these small
things, then i don't have a chance to be
my best during those two to four hours
when i'm in the pool every single day.
so, it it became literally a full-time
job the age of 15, 16 because i mean, i
was professional at 15 or 16 years old.
so, i treated it like a job. um,
everything i did was eat, sleep, and
swim. sure. i was in school. um, i i i
was in school through high school and
then i took six months of credits at
michigan and decided that i needed to
focus on swimming and that's what i did.
um, but yeah, i mean like it was
>> your coach like green
>> but like we'd start in the morning with
a training session and then i would go
and eat a bunch of plates of food for
breakfast just to recover from the, you
know, 7500 yard workout we just did. um,
go home, take a nap, wake up,
eat something else,
go back to the pool,
train for two hours,
go home,
eat, sleep, wake up, and do it all over
again. it literally like it became a job
at such a young age
>> every day for six years.
>> every day.
>> yeah.
>> so, but your coach also created
adversities during the training. what
was what was it like? why would you
train like
like put do it in the dark,
>> do it without water, do it
>> i mean like there were so many different
things he tried to do just to phys or
just to mentally prepare us i think for
things that we were going to go through
or could potentially go through.
>> tell me what's three.
>> um i mean like he would break my goggles
or step on my goggles on purpose to
teach me to make sure i had a backup
pair. and naturally in 2008, my goggles
fill up with water as soon as i dive in.
and i had to revert back to a training a
training habit that i did to help me
count strokes to get through that race.
and naturally, i hit the wall at the
right time, but i was able to win and i
was able to break the world record, too.
so, you know, i think the things that he
did like breaking my goggles or um you
know, like i i i've had my suit rip,
right? and and you know, during that
time, if you're getting ready for an
olympic final or a world championship
final and your suit rips, your emotions
are going to change, right? so, i was
able to then because of what i went
through, whether it's from the breaking
the goggles or or, you know, going 10
workouts a week where i'm going 10,000
meters every single session and going
100k, bang, bang, bang, just every week.
um, i think it it just gets you
relaxed in those super highressured,
tense moments when all of these lights
are on and there's millions of people
staring at you. oh, and by the way,
we're swimmers, so we're half naked, you
know. so, it's like um but but i think
that's what it was. like he was just uh
he was obsessed with with being
overprepared.
um
you know, yeah, it's probably a little
psychotic in ways, but um you know,
looking back at it, i i understand why
he did what he did, why he challenged me
mentally.
um
when things were uncomfortable, right?
like, you know, i remember having to
swim without goggles. it sucks. your
eyes hurt, right? like they burn after
swimming for two hours without goggles.
trying to swim a race without goggles.
no, it's not fun. um
but after doing that, like i i learned
and naturally like my cap rips at the
olympic final as i'm getting ready to
get up on the block for the 4x200 free
relay.
i have to naturally calm myself. i asked
for uh a teammate's cap and i know that
i can't represent his brand and i know i
can't represent his name. so, i had to
flip the cap inside out and just some
with a black cap. but in that moment,
you're calm because you prepared for it,
right? so, like i mean even like
visualization visualization is something
that that we did my whole my whole
entire career. uh, and it would be three
different ways. how you want or you
would play three different tapes. how
you want the race to go, how you don't
want the race to go,
and what if, right? and how and and and
what if this happens in the race, how do
you how do you adapt, how do you adjust,
right? so, it doesn't matter what
happens. whenever i get there, i'm
prepared. if i lose, if my cat rips, my
goggles break, if they fill up with
water, it doesn't matter because my
emotions will stay in check. and if you
can handle your emotions in the most
tense, pressured situations, then you're
able to be the best version of you,
right? so, like, you know, going back to
2008, i think it was, you know, for me,
i think it was, you know, lacking better
terms, it was like i i was in the
matrix. like literally time slowed down.
like i was just like, "all right, cool."
like, i'm more prepared. let's go.
but it's preparation. and it's again,
yeah, had i not done those six years, i
probably don't get the exact results
that i had. you know, like we always,
this is something that that um i always
hope that people can relate to, but um
when you're trying to accomplish a goal,
you know, obviously it's not going to
happen like that. it's not going to
happen overnight.
there has to be like little short
intermals
through that process to reach the big
goal. so through that process, my coach
and i would always say, you know, coming
to practice, that's a deposit into the
bank, right? and four years from now, i
hope our bank account is massive because
when we go to the olympic games, i want
to withdraw that whole entire account
and just put it on the table and say,
"let's go."
>> right? so, it's again, it's just a way
of looking at preparation and what
you're doing every single day because
greatness is really it's just a bunch of
small things that are done well stacked
upon on top of each other. that's it.
it's really not that hard.
>> um,
>> you said he was almost psychotic. what's
the most psychotic thing he did?
i mean, but him and i have gotten in so
many different arguments and and
i mean, it's almost like we were like a
married couple, you know, just like
fighting over like the smallest little
things. like, it's crazy. um,
i mean,
i remember there was a time,
uh, i forget how old i was, but i mean,
like i said, i was a little [ __ ]
>> and we were doing 400's free long course
and i was supposed to be going like
under 425 or around like 420 and uh i i
wasn't. i was just going slower and just
pissing him off on purpose. um, and he
was like, "you're going to go you're
going to go these times or we're going
to start over." and i had like 10 or 15
seconds before the timer went off where
we were about to do the next repeat. and
i looked at the clock and i just didn't
say anything. and right as i was getting
ready to push off, i just said no. i
went back under the water. and
naturally, when i was training, i always
had to bilateral breathe. i had to
breathe on both sides. um, so he was on
my left side. i'd have to go three
right, three left.
so i ended up switching it that day cuz
i went three on my right
>> and then i went to my left and saw him
the first time and i was like, "fuck
that. i ain't going back to that side."
and just kept breathing to my right.
i'll never forget he came down to the
other end, was chasing, throwing his
arms up in the air, whistling, whistling
like crazy. and he threw a bunch of
kickboards and pool boys down on top of
me as i was pulling or as i was flip
turning. i just kept swimming. i just
kept swimming. um, we had a talk shortly
after that.
uh we both expressed some frustration
but um you know again i think it was
just the passion that we both had and
and uh i wouldn't change it because you
know i'm sure i did some things that
that pissed him off and frustrated him
throughout our time together and
likewise there are some things that he
did that pissed me off and and
um you know if you asked me if i would
change anything that i did or do it
differently in any way, shape, or form.
i wouldn't
>> um not at all. you know, i think it's
it's kind of allowed me to
uh be the person who i am now and feel
comfortable in my own skin. so, um and i
was able to learn a lot through again
the craziness that we went through. i
mean, i've thrown water bottles at him.
like, it's it's been bad. like, i i'm
really sorry, grandpa. um sorry i'm
bringing this all out. people have seen
videos of it, though. um cuz that was on
a video. that was on a a documentary
that we did.
>> um, no, it's just it's it's the passion
and again it's the frustration because
>> um for us we were trying to work in
hundreds of a second, right? you know,
like two of my olympic medals were won
combined by 5100s of a second, right? i
won the 2,400 fly by 4100s and the 2,800
fly by 100th.
>> right place at the right time. yeah, for
sure. but it's also hitting the wall at
the right place at the right time with
the right amount of force, momentum, and
speed. but it's also being able to judge
when to go all out and when not over
swim a race and this that and the other.
so again, it's like everything we did,
it was it was a full-blown chess match.
um, and we were able to
damn near perfected or i only i broke
seven world records and won eight gold
medals. it should have been 8 for8 in
'08, but it was 8 for seven in '08. so,
um, but yeah, it was it was awesome. and
i think again, like having the
opportunities that i had later in life,
whether it's 04, 12, or 16. i don't like
talking about 12 cuz i hate that
olympics cuz i didn't swim very well.
um, but it wouldn't have been possible
without those things that i did back in
the early 2000s, right? like you know
from ' 04 or 2000 to04 and then that
transition from 04 to08 when we were at
university of michigan and and um you
know we assembled the training group
that we had there with i mean that was
one of the most iconic training groups
you know in my opinion um that we've had
there was every single day there was
there was a handful of the guys that
were just going at each other um and by
by saying at each other it was just
competition after competition after
competition every single stroke that you
took during practice and it was it was
something that i just thrived from. i i
loved being in that kind of environment.
>> you know what i really love about you
and your coach partnership? the more i
read about it, i was telling you what i
really love about you and your coach,
you both kept each other on very high
standards. there was an incident i was
reading where he didn't show up because
he was sick and you texted him that
why would i have a coach if i have to
coach myself?
that's why i said like i was ruthless.
like i was absolutely ruthless. i was
such a jerk. um but it was like any any
time that i had the chance to come back
at him, i i took it. um and i was like i
remember that i was like why the hell am
i swimming for somebody else? like
you're my coach. like if you're not
here, why the [ __ ] am i here? i think i
literally said that. um also to the
point because i i knew it would piss him
off. m
>> like there would be times where i would
just say things on purpose to make him
mad
>> because it was fun and i just enjoyed
it. um i enjoyed getting under his skin.
um
>> and i also knew that if i did ever want
to get kicked out and i didn't like the
practice that i could make him pissed
off and say something and he would he
would he would toss me. so um there
weren't many times like that. yeah, i
mean i there i i knew what to say um to
get a reaction
>> and that's what i wanted. i wanted a
reaction
>> and and one thing that you just
mentioned and your coach you guys did
almost every day. there was the
videotape technique, the visualization
in your head.
>> yeah.
>> walk me through it. if somebody who's
watching this right now, someone like me
who wants to become an absolute champion
in whatever they are doing, what is that
visualization technique like? what would
you do?
>> sit down in your room every day.
>> i would just lay down. it would be like,
you know, like if i'm getting ready to
go to practice or, you know, if i just
have like 30 minutes to lay down on the
couch or lay down on my bed and just
visualize, it would just be
>> so, what are you thinking? let's say
just walk around. so it would be like
>> what's going on in your head right now?
>> like in a perfect situation like say i'm
swimming the 200 butterfly. if i'm
swimming the 200 butterfly, like what
does a perfect race look like? a perfect
race looks like a great start, good
entry, 8 to 10 dolphin kicks, pop up
right before 15 m, take 16 to 17
strokes, that first 50, hit the wall
with speed and momentum on a full
stroke. um get out into open water. um
kind of make the the rest of the
competitors deal with my wake and my
waves and make them fight through that
so it's harder for them and they have to
use more energy. um
hitting the wall, breaking a world
record, how the race doesn't or you know
yeah. i mean like the perfect scenario
like no matter what it is, are you going
in for a work pitch and you're trying to
get your company to or you're trying to
get another company to sign your
company? yeah. then it's a home run.
like the you know how like the perfect
video is your vision of it going
perfectly how you want it to, how you
dream it to be. how you don't want it to
go is
you get touched out by a hundth of a
second because you screwed up a wall or
you misjudged a turn or you didn't have
the right start or your preparation
wasn't good, your warm-up wasn't good,
right? like all of those things. so,
it's trying to almost really make sure
your ducks are in a in a line and every
little small piece of that puzzle is fit
into the right spot. uh, and then how
the race could go would be
what if i
wake up and they don't like all of a
sudden they don't have the same food
that i've been eating every other day?
or what if i wake up 20 minutes late? or
what if my suit rips? or what if my cat
rips or what if i get sick, right? all
of these things are already played out.
so once i get to the olympics or once i
get to world championships,
if it does happen, i'm like, "all right,
cool. if i get sick, doc, what do i need
to do?" right? like we got team doctor,
what do i need to do to make sure i can
get out there to compete and be my best?
um all of those yeah. i mean, it's it's
again, it's it's another form of
preparation because i feel like if you
get into a situation that you're not
prepared for or you haven't thought of,
then you're not able to be your best
self.
>> yeah.
>> so, i guess in a long way of saying it,
it's controlling the controllables,
you know, like controlling the
controllables is something that that uh
a dear friend of mine, greg harden,
taught me uh back in 2004. and it it's
really just such an easy quote and a
powerful quote because you can really
relate it to so many things in life,
right? like if i'm thirsty, right, you
saw my water just explodes. i was trying
to break the ice, so i'm going to have a
drink of water, right? like if i'm
tired, i'm going to go take a nap or i'm
going to go to bed earlier tonight than
i did last night. it's literally that
simple. what do you need to get ready
for a meeting? x, y, and z. you have a
list. do those three things. if you
don't do those three things, you're not
fully prepared. you're going to go to
that meeting and you're going to be
like, "ah, [ __ ] i wish i would have
done that. well, tough break because you
didn't. right? so, and if you don't
learn from doing it that way to get
ready for the next time, then what are
you doing, right? so, it's it's it's
just it's different ways to look at
preparation. and for me, again, like i
became obsessed with it because i wanted
to have the opportunity to be great. i
didn't want anybody else to take that
opportunity from me. i wanted to earn
it. so, i prepared and i worked harder
than anybody else did. period. but would
you play every day in your head that
you're winning the perfect race?
i mean, that's just like
>> that's just for big meets. like i'm just
doing i'm just visualizing for big
meets. i'm not doing it for every day.
like
>> like i'm not laying in bed tonight and
being like, "ah, what's a perfect day
tomorrow?
>> not tomorrow day tomorrow. what's like
no like it's like it's more it's more
just like six months before a race
before a big meet like you know just
kind of getting ready into that mindset
because when that moment comes again
like yeah world championships you get a
little bit more often than the olympic
games but the olympic games you got to
wait four years you know how long four
years is to to just have a chance to go
compete and represent your country at
the olympic stage like it sucks it's
awful but like that's what i'm saying
like if you're not prepared, somebody
else is. especially at that level,
>> right? cuz people do obsess, right? and
winning a gold medal, it's what to have
the ch well, to win a gold medal, it's
less than 1% of 1%.
>> so, but for 6 months, you would play the
perfect
>> perfect
>> makeups, the failure every day in your
head.
so there was an incident where you won a
goal even when your goggles almost broke
like there were water there was water
inside your goggles
>> you couldn't see there was blackout and
you still won how many times did you
play that in your head or how many times
did you practice with broken goggles
before even you actually get that
>> well i think you know when my coach
broke my goggles and i had to swim a
race without having a pair of goggles i
think taught me to always have a backup
pair and when that happened i was just
like oh [ __ ] okay, i guess i got to
figure out what i'm going to do. and i
think for me at that time,
i reverted back to what i did in
training because
every single one of my 200s throughout
my career, every one of my 200
butterflies throughout my career when i
was competing, first, second, third, and
fourth 50, all were the same strokes.
16, 17, 18, and then 19 or 20 depending
on how many kicks i took off the last
one. so i was like, "all right, cool.
i'm just going to revert back to what i
do." because in training, we do these
things called stroke and time 50s.
>> so if you're trying to go 30 seconds,
then you take 20 strokes. 29, 19, 28,
18, 27, 17.
so for me naturally, i just started
counting my strokes after the first well
i guess right when i dove in because i
real i started counting my strokes as
soon as i dove in because i realized
that um they weren't going to stop
leaking and also i was unable to take my
goggles off because
when i would swim i would wear my
goggles
one cap,
two cap another cap. so, i couldn't rip
all of it off and swim with no cap or
goggles. it would just it would it just
wouldn't be good. so, i ended up
counting my strokes, hit the first wall
at 16, second wall at 17, third wall at
18, fourth wall was 19 or 20, i don't
remember. um, but ended up, yeah,
winning a gold medal, breaking a world
record. um, and you can go back and look
at that video. i i was
honestly pissed after i saw the time.
why?
>> i could have gone faster. i should have
gone faster.
>> i i think i could have gone at least a
half a second faster than that for sure.
100%. just because of the goggles. yeah.
i was i was firing on all cylinders
going into the olympic games.
>> but why would you be pissed?
>> you broke a world record. you won the
>> i wanted
>> i wanted to go faster.
that's me. like honestly, i didn't hit
the goal that i wanted, right? the goal,
the goal is hitting a certain time.
>> it's not winning. it's not winning a
gold medal because i know if i get to a
certain time, i'm the only one that's
thinking about doing it.
>> i'm the only one that's doing stuff
every single day to get there. so, if i
hit that time, the rest will take care
of itself. nobody else, no, nobody else
will win that gold medal if i do that
time. and what was going on in your head
at that micro second when you knew that
goggles have
did you went like did you go like oh
shit's
there was nothing i could do at that
point. i couldn't that that was out of
my control. the only thing i could do
was what was in my control and that was
try to win the race with what was at
hand. i knew i was the most prepared
person there. i just had to worry about
my stroke. i had to about counting my
strokes. that's all i did. 16
17 18 and then bang 1920
ripped off and i was like
1515.
i should have been 150 point. should
have won 150 for sure. i thought
honestly like i i truly thought i could
break 150 in the 200 butterfly at some
point in my career.
i only went 151.
i think i could have gone a second and a
half faster at some point in my career.
>> that that's insane. even after breaking
a world record or winning goal, you
would not be happy about it.
>> but it's the goals, right? like, you
know, like
like for me, like i i just held myself
to such a high standard and i put the
most pressure on myself. like didn't
matter what everybody else was saying or
doing. the the mo like the one person
who put the most amount of pressure on
me was me because it is in my control,
right? i'm not going to be able to skip
two weeks, a month, 6 weeks, 8 weeks and
just wake up one day and break a world
record. you have to do the work. if
you're not doing the work, then skip it.
do something else.
>> tell me tell me about that phase which a
lot of people call it the alien phase.
which is your 2008 beijing where you won
eight gold medals. you competed in eight
races and you won all of them. there's
never been an athlete in the world till
now who has ever gone that far and have
won so many medals. what was what was
that phase like that alien phase where
everything you touch you would turn it
into gold? i mean, yeah, during those
games and like i guess from like 0708,
like those two years, like i i truly
felt i felt unbeatable in the pool. i
really did. um,
>> what did you feel like?
>> unbeatable. like i literally felt like
there wasn't a single soul on the planet
that could touch me, that could beat me.
um, i just felt like i was super
prepared. um, you know, everyone says
it's like that 10,000 hour mark, right?
like i think 2007 was my 10,000 hour
mark. um
and it just it just kept getting better.
i mean 2007 those world championships in
melbourne were i mean i might even say
performance-wise were better than what
they were in in in beijing. um i mean
the times that i did the amount that i
was breaking world records by. i mean
they were body lengths behind me. um,
yeah. i mean, again, it's just it's the
preparation that i had done years prior
that we're showing. that's all it was.
it's right like, you know, if you go out
and buy a piece of property and you want
to build a house, you can't snap the
fingers, right? you just got to put it
up one brick at a time. and that's what
i did one day at a time leading up to
that point. you know, 2004 was, you
know, obviously a learning process for
me being yeah, it was a great experience
winning six gold medals. um, but i think
it truly just prepared me for what was
coming in 2008 to make sure that i was
overly prepared, obsessively prepared
for every small detail. um, because i
knew how hard it was going to be to win
seven, let alone eight.
>> what was different about that phase?
>> i don't know. i mean, coming off of
2004, obviously, you know, it was my
first gold medal, right? so,
you know, 18, 19 years of dreaming of
winning a gold medal and it happens. um,
you win a couple of them, you get off of
that olympic games, and then literally
every headline is michael phelps fails
because he doesn't win seven gold
medals. and i'm like, like, what are you
talking about? like, this is a joke. um,
honestly though, like, uh, you know, to
just have the chance to win one was
incredible, but you know, winning six in
an olympics and then winning eight in
the next olympics. um,
yeah, i was i was just prepared, you
know, like i mean, even even going back
to like the the the quote that ian thorp
said going into 2008, he said, "no one
will ever win eight gold medals in an
olympic games." like that for me is
motivation,
>> right? like everything i did during that
time,
you know, truly was about trying to be
as perfect as i could. and perfect was
going eight, eight for eight. um, but
again, like i i was competing against
somebody who is pretty much fresh every
single time, right? like people go to
the olympics and they might swim one or
two races.
>> exactly.
>> right. and i'm swimming a total of 17
races. 18 races in eight days.
>> yeah, that was like insane, right? that
that's fascinating.
>> like it's a full training week. like
during that week with all of the
warm-ups, warm downs. so that's that's
2,000 2,000 m for warm up, 2500 m for
warm up, 2,000 m for warm down. is doing
it twice a day plus all the racing. i
mean, i'm swimming i was swimming like
60,000 meters during a competition week.
there are people that don't even train
60,000 65,000 yards or meters a week.
period. so again, like everything i did
from 2000
to the first step i got with bob from
him destroying my strokes and recreating
them into what they were throughout my
whole entire career got me to that
point.
so you started competing on 10th august
and then 10 11 12 13 there was only like
one day i think 15th august was off.
>> i had a morning off.
>> yeah had a morning or i had a a morning
or an afternoon cuz the finals were in
the morning for that olympics. um where
typically they're in the afternoon or
night time.
>> uh i had one i typically had one session
off every every uh every major major
competition. um and and by that point i
needed it.
>> yeah.
>> i was so tired by the end of those
meets, man. um
>> you slept did you sleep the whole day
like on 15th when you got got an off
between those events?
>> uh no, like during an off day i would
wake up normal time. uh i would i would
stay on that schedule, that routine. i
would wake up and i would have like a
morning like a splash and i literally
would do
800 to a,000. like not much. i was
supposed to do more, but i never did.
um, and i would just go and just kind of
feel just feel how i was feeling, see if
i needed to get a little massage or
whatever. i needed a stretch or
something before the finals. um,
go have lunch,
watch a movie, play some games. i don't
know. like, we were always playing
spades or risk hearts. um, some kind of
game to kill time. but yeah, i mean it
was it was a pretty normal day. i
wouldn't really i wouldn't think about
much. and by the time the afternoon
came, we we always have a team meeting
before we would go over to the final
session. and you know, from the team
meeting, it was headphones go on, no one
talks to me or i don't talk to anybody.
they might talk to me, but i i ignore
absolutely every noise.
>> get to the pool about 2 hours before my
race. stretch for about half hour, dive
in the warm-up pool 90 minutes before my
race, and then do my warmup, get out,
dry off, put warm clothes on 30 minutes
before my race, get my racing suit on,
jump back in the pool for 3 to 500, just
kind of stroke play, kind of feel my
body, make sure everything's going, get
out, walk up for the race 15, 20 minutes
beforehand, and then bang, that's it.
you get either
i mean my races were anywhere from
47 seconds to
4 minutes and 3 seconds.
>> that's it.
>> did you ever feel like taking it off in
that alien phase?
>> taking off?
>> yeah. like an off day of training or
maybe
>> just you didn't feel like like today is
not the day. i'm sure there must have
been at least one day where you must be
>> i mean, yeah, but i think the goals that
i had were were
too big. they were big enough where i
couldn't take a day off. i couldn't.
>> what did you tell yourself on the day
when you were feeling sick and you
didn't want to get out of bed?
>> i mean, for me, like when i when i would
get out of bed, the first things i see
are my goal sheets. like literally,
first thing i wake up, they're on my
desk. they're on my bedside table
because i, you know, for me, i want to
know why i'm waking up. what is the
purpose of that day? yeah, i might feel
like [ __ ] but if i can get 10%, if i
can get 20%, if i can get 50% out of
that day, then isn't that better than
getting zero?
>> yeah.
>> you know, like as long as you're not
taking a step backwards
cuz if you are, try to flip that car
around and go a different direction,
right? try something different. um
because taking steps back just it
crushes you. absolutely crushes you.
>> so, what does a goal sheet of an of a
world champion looks like? i mean, for
me it was they were bro all of my times
were broken down into 50s, right? so
like if i'm swimming a hundred, it's
broken down the first 50 and the second
50 and then it has my total time.
they're they're down to the hundth of a
second.
>> every day you would have this.
>> well, i just see like i see so i would
have short-term goals and long-term
goals. long-term goals are what times do
i want to swim at the olympic games or
world championships?
and then the short-term goals are what
times do i need to hit this season in
order to give me a chance at the end of
the season to rip 154 and the 200 im or
155 and the 200 i am back there. um,
and then yeah, it's just i mean, and
then i basically i i i wrote i i would
write down basically 100 200 free. he
would always make me do the mile at
least once a year. i [ __ ] hated the
mile. uh 100 200 back, 100 200 fly, 200
400 im because i'd swim all of those
races throughout the year and i'd
sometimes swim a brushstroke race, too.
um,
but yeah, i mean like i think for me,
you know, for the 400 im, i knew that i
had to i knew that there like my strokes
had to be at a certain level in order to
do the times that i needed to do in the
400 im, right, to be able to add those
times together to make the right splits.
and it all came what i was doing. it all
came from what i was doing every single
day, right? like if i'm going in like if
i'm going in for a practice, my coach
like bob would show me the practice be
like these are this is what we're doing
today. we're doing 10400 back or 102 200
back short course and the last one i
want you to try to go 140. i'm like all
right cool let's go 140. um and i would
start and just descend my way down to
that time and he would give me goals
every single day of what to hit in
practice because those goals then were
handinhand with what i was trying to do
longterm. right? and if i did that every
single day, and i did, whether it was
freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke,
butterfly, im, it didn't matter. i was
doing those times back to back to back
to back to back to back to back every
single week.
why? because nobody else was.
>> what's the def what's the definition of
insanity? doing the same thing over and
over again, expecting different results.
i was doing different things over and
over again, expecting different results.
i knew i was going to get him because
again, there wasn't another person on
the planet that was more prepared for me
in those last in those two decades of my
of my career on this planet. there just
wasn't. that's why i was able to have
the success that i did.
>> was it all about competing yourself, the
old version of you, or was it about
competing with other people who would
come as your competition in the olympics
game?
>> i was competing. were you competing
about against yourself or others?
>> no, i was competing against a clock.
that's it. against a clock.
that's how that's how my time or that's
how my sport was defined by a time. how
fast can you go? and again, like i was
saying,
if the times that i dreamt of and i
believe that i could go
were faster than the world record or
faster than what other people believed,
if i did those times, guess what would
happen? i'm going to win.
>> yeah.
>> right. so, for me, it became a numbers
game.
but it said that you knew your
competition better than they knew
themselves
>> for sure.
>> why would you say that? you would study
on them.
>> i mean, i knew how they would swim their
races. it's easy, right? like i i feel
like
>> like would you study your competitors
the way they would do style? what would
you study about them?
>> well, i mean like i i always i learn
things from them, right? like i would go
back and you know if you talk about ian
thorp like i would learn from his
freestyle and how he swam and his kick
and his underwaters and you know just
how his body moved in the water. um you
know i took a lot of core exercises from
different countries that i would see on
the pool deck. um just because like if
they're doing it then i can do it and i
can beef it up like i can alter the
exercise and change it and make a
hybrid. um but like lochi like i mean i
swam against lochi for 15 years 10 or 15
years, right? so um you know i felt like
i knew him almost better than he knew
himself just because of the history that
we had. and of course yeah like i watch
a lot of tapes. i i i mean i i don't
>> you know i i don't have any connection
to the sport anymore now. um you know
there are a couple international people
that i talked to a couple international
athletes that i talked to but i have
zero connection with anything to do with
the sport of swimming anymore. um but
yeah it was it was just i don't know
>> just studying them.
>> yeah. you just thought i mean cuz it's
like
>> you could you yourself can only do so
much right? so, it's like if if you
can't learn from others or others that
have come before you, then
>> you're just never going to grow. and
again, like it was always back to that
goal of wanting to change a sport and
take the sport to a different level. and
>> we talking about ian thorp, he also said
it's very highly unlikely that you will
win eight gold.
>> yeah.
>> you taped that quote on your locker
room. why would you do that?
>> it was in the back of my locker in in
michigan in 2008. um because it it's
kind of like the same story back to my
teacher, right? like my teacher telling
me i'd never amount to anything and
proving her wrong.
>> and if a fellow competitor and a friend
of mine is telling
uh excuse me, if a friend of mine and a
competitor of mine is telling reporters
that it's not possible to win eight gold
medals, guess what? i'll have the last
laugh. um, and i it's, you know, like
thorp is a great friend of mine, always
has been. um, but even like after after
that and then after 2016 in rio cuz he
said, "no one over the age of 30 will
win an olympic gold medal." um, he he
sent me a text uh right after and i was
giving him [ __ ] for it and he was like,
"dude," he's like, "i know how your mind
works. i was just giving you a little
extra motivation." um, but no, i i i you
know, i i always like proving people
wrong.
>> um, especially if they doubt something
that i think is possible. um, you know,
i think one thing uh my coach took out
of my vocabulary was the word can't.
because if you say you can't do
something, you can't. your mind has
already made it up for you. like you you
made that choice, right? don't do it.
don't think about it anymore. don't
think about whatever that was. move on
from it because it's going to be
exponentially harder since you told
yourself you can't. right? so, it's such
a negative word. so, we removed it from
my my vocabulary. and and you know, for
me, i i i just believe that whatever i
did,
whatever i dreamt of, excuse me, let me
take a step back. whatever i dreamt of
was possible based off of the actions
that i did. right? it's back to that
quote, actions speak louder than words.
right? what you do every single day, how
you show up, when you show up, it
matters and it's gonna matter at the
most important time, right? so, um yeah,
that's it.
>> would you ever imagine yourself losing a
race?
>> uh would you ever visualize?
>> yeah, why not?
>> what if i lost?
>> um yeah, because i never want it to
happen. so, of course.
>> yeah.
>> do you do that?
>> yeah.
>> and
>> what if i get second by 100th of a
second instead of winning by 100th of a
second? yeah. i'd be [ __ ] pissed. but
the only way i can change that is
controlling what i do every day.
>> so maybe i have to prepare better,
right?
>> and was there any
>> well, i think i think to i think to
better answer that, like
i remember my losses more than i
remember my victories
because the feeling of defeat
>> i never wanted to have again,
right? because it feels like [ __ ] when
you lose. it feels like [ __ ] when you
fail. it's not it doesn't feel fun,
right? so, for me, i looked at it as if
i failed,
it was my fault because i didn't
prepare. i didn't take the time to focus
on the small details that are going to
help me down the road. so, those defeats
motivate me even more to never have that
happen again.
what's about losing that you hate so
much? i
>> just don't like the feeling of somebody
being better than me.
um, no, honestly, i think that's what it
is. like i just i like you i i think
it's it's like you ask the great or the
goats of all sports or probably all
walks of life and and i think they'll
say
they hate losing more than they enjoy
winning. it's just that just the feeling
of defeat. like i just i don't like it.
it's just something i i don't enjoy. and
if there is something in my control, in
my power to make sure that i have a
chance at least to succeed, then that's
what i'm going to do. and if i fail, and
i fail because that person is more
prepared than me, then so be it. but i'm
not going to show up unprepared, right?
like it's just it's not who i am. did
you use any psychological
warfare sort of tactic against your
competitors which you secretly would
use? no.
>> and not share it with anyone?
>> no. i mean,
i would say some people probably think
me doing my back slap and clearing my
throat on the block was a form of trying
to get in their head, intimidation. it
wasn't. um, you know, the clearing of
the throat. i don't know when that came
in. i feel like it was maybe post 2008.
um, but my arm slaps
i i've been doing those since i was 8
years old, 7 years old. i've done that
my whole life, you know? so, it's just a
part of what i needed to do in order to
get as prepared as i can be. and if what
i'm doing is messing up them, it's not
my problem. it's not my fault, right?
like, i'm taking care of me. i'm taking
care of me and i'm focusing on what i
need in that moment. i don't give a [ __ ]
about my competitors in that moment. i
could care why why would i care about
them, right? like i'm trying to beat
them. i don't care what they're doing. i
don't care anything about them. when i'm
on the pool deck, it is a full-blown
war. i want to absolutely destroy
somebody.
>> was there anyone you secretly feared as
a competitor?
>> feared. feared?
>> yeah.
>> no,
>> i beat everybody.
even your head, you would not be like,
"maybe this new guy or somebody's better
than me or someone's going to beat me."
>> if i was prepared, why would it matter?
>> you didn't care.
>> i didn't care. i didn't care who you
were. if i smelled blood in the water,
i'm going to destroy you. i was like a
shark.
>> yeah.
>> tell me the first time you won the gold
medal at the olympics. how did you feel?
>> 04.
>> first time ever in 2004.
because that's what you ever that's what
you wanted, right?
>> yeah. uh
yeah. i mean i mean going back to 2004
400 im was in the center of the pool
went 4082
408.26
maybe somewhere in there. um and i
remember turning back around and seeing
that i had broken the world record, won
the gold medal, first gold medal. um, we
were an outdoor pool uh in athens,
greece. the olympics has started. um,
i remember looking up and just looking
for my mom. my mom and my sisters. uh, i
caught them and then i was on the award
st award podium hearing the national
anthem play. we're actually the us went
two in that race. uh, eric vent got
second from lane one or eight, i forget
which one it was. uh, and he came
jumping across the lane line and we
hugged and celebrated. it was [ __ ]
awesome. like that kid is one of my
favorite humans on the plan. i love
training with him. um,
and then once we got our medals, uh,
that was day one of the meet. um, i had
the 200 free i think the next day or a
relay the next day or something. and i
remember sharing it with my mom through
a chainl fence. i passed it through her
um through the fence and and we just
talked about it and we shared the moment
for i think it was a total of like 30
seconds. um and i was like, "mom, i did
it." um and that was it. and we from
that point i heard my coach whistle. bob
whistled. he had a couple different
whistles that meant a couple different
things. uh and he whistled like the one
trying to get my attention and i turned
around and he just pointed at the warm
down pool and he was like, "let's go. we
got to warm down." cuz i i hadn't warmed
down from the race yet. so, i needed to
clear my lactic acid to get ready for
the next day and my next race. um, so i
think that was the first time for me
where i learned that um
i couldn't get caught up in that one
moment
even though it was special, right? like,
yeah, i just won my first gold medal,
but i had five or six other races that i
had to get ready for. so that gold medal
is like, "all right, finished. what's
next?
on to the next race." um, you know, like
it's crazy. like i
throughout my career, i i don't know
like in the actual moment
with a gold medal around my neck, like
i, you know, i don't think i really
enjoyed it or like lived it as much as i
did in 2016.
um because i knew it was my last one
period. like i knew i wasn't coming back
and you know that's why i kind of like
the tears started coming out during the
national anthem when i was in the podium
just because of you know going back and
thinking through every little moment
throughout my career. but you know in
2004 and 2008 and 2012 i couldn't
use those emotions up in that way
because i had so much other stuff going
on that week. so, it really was trying
to manage those physical and emotional
or that physical and emotional energy
throughout, you know, an 8 to 10 day
program. um, so yeah, you you really
couldn't i couldn't, excuse me, um,
enjoy those moments as probably as much
as
probably people would have thought. um,
but i think for me after retiring, i've
been able to kind of go back and um, put
myself back in those spots and um, it's
been really cool uh, just being able to
look at each metal and, you know, tell
you exactly what was going on in my head
or, you know, who i was swimming
against, who i touched out, this, that,
or the other. um, just trying to break
it all down, right? because i think that
at times there's there's still that like
that thought you're like was that a
dream or did that really happen? right?
so you still got to pinch yourself every
now and then.
>> but winning the gold medal, getting it
in your hand, you're standing at the
podium and you're not thinking about
that feeling of winning. you're just
thinking about, okay, tomorrow, next
race.
>> yep. i can't i could not do it. i
couldn't
because i couldn't i i i had to i had to
make sure that like in that moment i had
to make sure that i was getting the
right recovery, right? like if i was
finished for the night and i had warmed
down already, then i'm like, "all right,
am i getting back on the massage table
and then right into the cold tub to then
go back and eat? am i eating first? what
am i doing? is there food here? do i
have to eat a power bar or something
like that now? or carnation and some
breakfast just to give me some energy
before i get back to the village. um
yeah, it it was it was one thing in
front of another. i mean like even in
2012, right? like 2012 i swam the 400
im, which [ __ ] i still probably
shouldn't have swam it. um but whatever,
it was a learning experience. i'm i did
it. uh where i got fourth. i got fourth
and missed the podium. um and that was
the very very first day of the olympics,
right? so, at that point, it's like,
"all right, well, that didn't go as
planned." so, now, how do you redirect
yourself and your energy to make sure
that doesn't affect the rest of the
meat? so, i was like, i literally i just
threw it out, just forgot about it. next
day, i came back and had unbelievable
split on the relay. um, and then kind of
built momentum back from there. but,
yeah, it's it's it's, you know, really
living in the moment. and i think it's,
you know, i still haven't mastered it,
but you know, i think throughout my
career, it was something that i was
really good at. um, i think there's a
book that i have probably read a dozen
times, the power of now, aaroleier.
like, it's just it's incredible. like,
there's something really to living in
the moment. um, and i think it's
something we can all learn from. like, i
mean, you guys have heard me talk about
having four kids, and those four kids do
it perfectly. they live in the moment
every single waking moment of their life
right now. um, and i, you know, i think
it's there there's just a lot of power
to that. it's something that i try to do
at every moment of my life. it is hard.
um, this complicated world that we live
in, but um, i think there's if that's
one thing that that you can try to do,
it's living in the now. i think it truly
allows you to be the best version of
you.
>> what about the time when you won all
eight gold medals after that? there was
nothing to look forward to at least
during that time. did you not enjoy that
as well?
>> there wasn't. there was nothing to look
forward to because at that point i had
just done something that no one else had
ever done that i had literally set my
life to do to try to do.
>> so, did you enjoy that feeling a lot?
>> yeah, it was awesome. but i was just
like, "all right, cool." like, i just
need space from the sport. and that's
when i kind of like stiff armed the
sport a little bit and just wanted to be
me. i wanted to be a kid. um, and i
learned a lot about myself that way,
too.
put myself in a couple different
situations throughout my life. but um
yeah, it was
i mean but but i think like like if i
can understand a little bit of what
you're asking like for me like the
sacrifices that i gave up throughout my
career allowed me to have the
opportunity that i had in the swimming
pool
>> and i don't regret giving those things
up. you know, like for me throughout my
career, it it yeah. would it have been
cool to go and like party with your
friends or go on a road trip for the
weekend? yeah, sure. but isn't it really
cool winning 23 olympic gold medals,
too, you know? so, like for me, like it
was almost like i have this opportunity
to do something really special and uh
i'm going to have that same opportunity
to do whatever they're doing right now
in 15 years, right? so, it's just like
kind of lock in and just go.
you know what's funny? because you just
said 23 gold medals. i was listening to
one of the uh somebody was explaining an
interview which you gave and the
interviewer asked you that you've won 28
28 olympic medals in your life.
>> no. yeah. 23 the only
>> and you said no just 23 that counts.
>> yeah. i don't even know how many how
many silver and and bronze i have. i
>> anything which is not gold doesn't count
in your life. i mean, it's it's like i
said, it's like, yeah, i don't i don't
like to lose. so, um,
>> silver is losing.
>> you're second, right? you got second
place.
you lost. third place, you lost. yeah,
it's losing. i don't talk about the
other five.
i went 28 for 30. here's a better way of
saying it. i meddled in 28 out of 30 of
my races at the olympic games.
23 are only the ones that we need to
talk about because again like i i was
unprepared in the other ones. somebody
else was more prepared than me.
>> so in 2012 when the bad phase started
and you won four gold medals in the
olympics and you were sad about it.
>> yeah, it sucked. i just want but at but
at that point like i think i was sad
because i just wanted to be done with
the sport, you know, like i i think at
that point i was just over it. i wanted
i wanted space. i wanted to be a kid. i
wanted to just grow up a little bit and
not just literally all be about
swimming. and like i think for me i
think that's what that's when i really
kind of stiff armed the sport so you
will um because all i had done was swim
swim
and i think at that point i was like
what else do i need to do? there's
nothing else that i need to accomplish.
and i just kind of rebelled a little bit
and did my own thing and then um you
know realized that i still wanted it and
came back in 16 you know. but like,
yeah, in 2012, you know, the 200 fly, if
i
if i don't have a shitty first, second,
third turn, or hit the finish with any
amount of momentum, i win the race. if i
win that race, i probably don't come
back in 16,
>> right? so, it's like for me, like 2012
was
like i i think that that olympics was
worse than the 2000 olympics, and i came
back with six medals.
i hated swimming then. i hated it. i
didn't want to do it. i did it because i
had to. i was contractually obligated. i
had to. if i didn't compete, i lost all
my sponsors. so, i had to swim. i did
the best i could with not doing much
work. i mean, i literally trained
i trained less than two years of that
four years from 2008 to 2012.
>> and you still ended up with four gold? i
don't think i was 100% in beijing.
>> yeah, we we i want to talk about that. i
want to talk about that. right. it's
>> i broke my wrist 6 months before the
olympic games
in08.
>> before the beijing
>> i spent 3 days out of the water and had
surgery 24 to 36 hours afterwards.
>> right there. there's a scar still
and there's still a pin in there. i have
a titanium pin in there. slipped on a
piece of ice.
>> you gave what you had.
>> i slipped on a piece of ice. my wrist
snapped back and there was a i basically
looked like a golf ball coming out of my
wrist and i just popped it popped it
back in. held it. had surgery the next
day. yeah. but no, like i i truly don't
think i
>> before the olympics.
>> six months before trials.
six months before olympic trials. and
you still ended up winning
>> eight gold medals.
>> eight. all eight.
>> but
>> i was probably only at
>> but here's what i don't understand.
>> 85% 90%.
>> but okay, explain me this right. 2004
six medals. 2008 eight medals.
>> gold. 2012 four gold medals. and 2016
again. but you say that only 2016 where
you've given 100%. yeah,
>> before that london was not 100%.
>> london definitely wasn't.
>> beijing wasn't 100%.
>> 04 was um but like 08 like yeah, i don't
think i was i was fully at 100%. no,
>> i could have that's what i'm saying.
like you asked earlier like the 200
butterfly. yeah, i was pissed even
though i broke the world record and won
the gold medal because i knew i could
have gone faster. like that's what i'm
saying. like i i truly coming off of
2007 that was like arguably probably
better than 2008 even though i only won
seven. um cuz we we i could have i
should have won eight but our morning
relay got dqed. um so disqualified. uh
yeah 2007 was unbelievable like that
best year of my career. um and then
broke my broke my wrist 6 months before
trials. uh yeah, that that recovery was
was brutal. um but we did whatever we
could and and yeah, it ended up working
out. but yeah, it could have it could
have been better. and i think being
better, i say from a times, like a times
perspective, a times standard, i think
the times that i did there
would have been faster had i not broken
my wrist, but that was my fault. so
whatever. what was going on in your head
in 2016? because i heard there was a
competitor who said
michael phelps should shut up
and then he you were sitting in the in
the
>> i think he said shut up. i don't
remember hearing that but
>> like somewhere there was like he said he
there was a news about it, right? and
then he was shadow boxing shadow boxing
in front of you and you gave him this
felaced look which is like pretty
iconic. i mean, like for me back then,
it was kind of crazy like like i
i was on a mission. i didn't care really
what anybody said, what anybody did, if
anybody got in my way. i was i was going
to push you out. like i i was just on an
absolute tear. i was feeling the best i
had felt in years. um and i i remember
seeing chad uh shadow box and i was
like, "what are you doing?" like i i
don't ever remember seeing him do that
once um prior to that point. uh and it
almost looked like it was on purpose.
like it looked like it was on purpose
right in front of me. um and honestly
for me it just pissed me off. it pissed
me off more than anything else. uh and i
knew there were going to be two cameras,
one in each corner. uh and i looked at
both of them and i was like, "oh shit."
cuz i saw the red lights. so, if you see
the red light on a camera on the bottom,
you know, that thing's rolling. so, i
was like, man, they're going to have a
field day with the reaction and the
facial expressions that i had because,
right, i i don't really hide my emotions
well, right? like, if i'm pissed off,
you're going to see it. if i'm happy,
you're going to see it. like, it's just
how i am. and and
um yeah, i think the the the best photo
for me coming from those games or one of
the best photos was him looking like
this during the race as i'm a half a
body length ahead of him
>> and i end up winning the gold medal,
right? so, i think that's a lesson
within itself, right? focus on you and
what you're trying to do, not what
others are doing. and don't try to
intimidate other people because it's
only going to waste your time and your
energy.
>> yeah,
>> that's it. right. focus on what you got
to do. period. cut and dry. you
>> i was watching that video where in the
2016 rio you race and just like the
moment you touch the wall, you just come
up and you do this.
>> you knew like
>> i knew
>> you knew that you won.
>> 0.01 second which made you win. like
just
>> it was it was a close one. that 200 fly
had it been 201 mters i probably would
have lost the race but um yeah i just
you just know in those moments um
>> but 0.01 01 second. how did you know
that you won it? like it was just 100.
it was pure instinct to go that extra
half a stroke.
>> i mean, yeah. like in in 2008 when i did
take that half stroke. yeah. you had to
because it was all situational like you
know for me in that moment like i start
judging the wall 10 to 15 m before the
end of the race before before i get to
the wall. so um unfortunately i didn't
judge it. i didn't judge it very well
there. um but i hit it at the right
spot, right? so, i was always taught to
hit it with force. you got to hit it
with force because if you kind of baby
it, it doesn't stop until you really hit
it. so, um the half stroke that i took
won me the race
>> and the glide stroke that michael kavick
took lost him the race.
>> if you look at the video, he's going
like this. he's finishing like this. his
body, his neck, and his hands are
completely out of body position. so, um,
yeah, 100 of a second.
>> so, you were so focused on yourself, you
didn't care about anyone else, but what
in your body knew that
>> you won? because until you look at the
board or anything.
>> yeah. i mean, like, you just came out of
the water.
>> i mean, the very first thing that i do
when i finish is snap, turn, and look at
the board.
>> okay.
>> i know where my lane is. i know where my
name where my name is. and if there's a
if i see this, yeah, that's it. like i
mean like most like there are some races
where i'll win by a body length or two
body lengths. and you don't even have to
look at the scoreboard. but like some of
the races like i mean i think if you add
it's like six of my races together,
eight of my races. no, it's probably
six. i think it's six or seven of my
races together. the margin of victory i
think um six or seven of my olympic gold
medals the winning margin is less than
half a second.
so,
yeah, it's preparation. yeah, it's being
in the moment at the right place at the
right time. but, um, i mean, i i
practiced those finishes that i did in
every single one of my races,
a thousand times, 2,000 times, 5,000
times, 10,000 times.
so, when i'm in the race, you don't
think, you just be. that is it.
and what goes on in your head when
you're on the podium?
>> nothing. i'm singing the national
anthem. that's it.
>> no. before even the races started.
>> oh. when i'm on the block.
>> on the block.
>> nothing. zero.
>> so many people.
>> i'm not thinking of my start. i'm not
thinking of my my breakout, my kicks, my
streamline. i do my normal stretch, my
legs on the block, my arm slap. that's
it. i don't think about anything.
there's nothing i can change in that
moment.
>> but right before the race, you're not
thinking about winning. you're not
thinking about beating.
>> no.
>> competing.
>> i'm like a dog trying to get out of the
cage. just let me out of the cage. like
i'm just
>> no. i'm like, again, i'm the shark in
the water. if i smell the smallest ounce
of blood, i'm going to destroy you. and
i mean, like you can tell people who are
nervous being in the ready room rims,
too. it's it's obvious. like that's why
i always have my headset on. i don't
want to talk to anybody.
i just want to listen to my beats,
listen to my my like the the lyrics or
whoever i'm listening to at that moment
just to put me in the m to to put me in
the zone.
>> and you you would listen to till i
collapse.
>> eminem. i mean, it was everybody. i
mean, m wayne,
>> tell me top three songs you always
listen to
>> or you used to.
>> oh, man.
>> before you would get out. it's all lil
wayne stuff to be honest. uh, a lot of
it was
uh, let's see.
lil wayne was there was till i collapse
as eminem.
>> lil wayne was
i guess like a millie. like those were
big ones back in young jeezy was a big
one. uh, i mean every one of eminem's
albums. uh biggie. um there there wasn't
really one song that stuck out. it was
kind of like a hodgepodge of of songs
that uh were just going through i don't
know kind of whatever whatever put me
put me in the mood. uh, and honestly, i
i think during each competition week, it
would really get narrowed to
probably just a handful of songs and i
would just repeat. like i'd get off the
bus, restart the song, walk out to the
pool deck, restart the song, and i
always try to get it in a certain spot
of the song before i took it off
just to give me one final little oomph,
little motivation before i dive.
i mean, here's the last question because
i know we're running out of time. it's
if
somebody listening to this and want to
build the same kind of mindset that you
have, the same kind of things that you
have done in your work, they want to do
it in their work. okay? and they could
just pick up three specific principles
or habits or rituals or mindset from
you. what would that be? let's say we
call it the phelps protocol. like what
would that be?
>> it's so hard to narrow it into three
different things. i mean, i think one of
the things that i really live by is
dream, plan, reach, right? like we all
have a dream of something that we're
trying to accomplish. and if you don't
have a plan that goes along with that
dream, then you're going to be lost,
right? and then honestly, it's just
reaching for it. look, like, was i
afraid to drop all of my other sports
and just focus on swimming? of course.
but i also was able to learn that it was
the best decision for me, right? like i
found something that i love, i enjoyed,
and that i was pretty good at, you know?
so, i think it's really just keeping it
as simple as you possibly can, right?
like what is your goal? and figure out
the smallest little details that you
need to get to get there, to reach to to
just have a chance to get there, right?
i think that's the biggest thing is is
people want a chance to do something,
but if you're not doing the things that
it takes to give yourself a chance, then
all it is is words, right? it's back to
that actions speak louder than words
thing. um, i think it's just what you
do. holding yourself accountable for
things. um, but again, it's it's it's
what can you do right now. it's not
yesterday. it's not tomorrow. it's right
now. it's it's trying to simplify every
little small detail. like again, like i
i say this a hundred times, like my
career wasn't wasn't rocket science. it
was just a lot of small things that were
done well over time and that's it. like
don't have an excuse. if you didn't want
to do it, say you didn't want to do it.
then if you didn't want to do it, then
your goals didn't matter. right? if your
goals are something that mattered to
you, you'll never have an excuse.
period. like for me, like you asked me,
yeah, there were days where i wanted to
hit snooze and not get out of bed, but
those goals were important to me. that's
what pushed me. it's the same thing now.
like how can i give my kids the best
chance to succeed in this world? what
does that look like? i don't know. i
don't have the answers, but i'm trying
to figure it out, right? like for me,
that's all i think about. it's all my
wife and i think about every day is how
can we do the how can we be the best
parents to give them the best life to
succeed however they want. whether
that's in the pool, whether it's in a
classroom, i don't care, right? i just
want them to be the best version of
themselves. so, it's what do you do
every single day? what are your daily
habits and what are your daily routines
that
prove that you are trying to be
successful and you are trying to be
great? because if your habits aren't
aligned with those things, then you need
to look at yourself in the mirror and
figure out what you're doing and who you
are or your goals need to change.
i don't know. i don't know if that
answers the question, but it's just
like, you know, i always hear people
like whether it's a weight loss goal or
this that or the other, like, "oh, i
really want to do this." and you're
like, "well, what have you been doing?"
nothing. i've been meaning to do this or
i've been meaning to do this. no, just
go do it. right? like literally just go
out and do it. like i didn't want to go
into the gym today. my head just wasn't
wasn't great this morning. whatever. but
i went in and i got done and i was like
like i i feel different, right? like you
feel different when when you set your
mind to something. like i got in the gym
this morning. i was like, "this is going
to suck." and i was like, "i'm going to
put my music on. i'm going to put mcafee
on tv. i'm going to stretch." and by the
time i stretched,
i was excited
and i was ready to try to get stronger.
20 minutes, 30 minutes before that, i
didn't even want to come into the gym.
right? so, it's just it it it's crazy to
me that
if you try to or if you force yourself
to do something that you don't want to
when it's uncomfortable,
how quick your mind and body comes back
around and you're not in that shitty
mood or depressed mood or unhappy mood.
like for me, like that's that's why i
work out still every day because if i
don't, then i'm not giving myself the
best chance physically and mentally.
because for me, for 25 years of my life,
i swam damn near every day, right? so,
some form of exercise. so, that's what i
have to do now. for me to be the best
version of me, that's there's no
excuses. i have to get in there for an
hour, hour and a half plus, no matter
what. no matter how i feel, tomorrow i'm
going to be sore as hell from the
weights today. but, you know what? i get
through tomorrow, the next day is going
to be even better. and then i am going
to build muscle. i am going to get
stronger, right? it's that process of
it. it's the process of things that i
think people don't like or skip or give
up after they're a week, two weeks,
three weeks into it. trust it. it takes
30 days to create a habit. it takes 30
days to get rid of a habit.
for me, throughout my career, i would do
different habits. so, when i'm in the
pool, i would learn and create different
habits for strokes or repetitions or
streamline or kickouts or this, that,
and the other. so naturally, after a
30-day period, it becomes second nature.
you don't have to think about it. it's a
part of who you are, right? so it's i
don't know. i mean, i guess the easiest
way to say things is simplify it, right?
like break your goals down in the
smallest terms, smallest things, and
take a little bite out of each each
part. if you try to conquer everything
at once, you're just going to fail and
spin, and it won't be good.
>> but what now? doesn't it feel empty
because there's nothing to look forward
to? what are you looking forward to now?
uh i mean for me everything i'm trying
to do in the mental health space um you
know suicide the second leading cause
for people 10 to 34 like that that's
frightening. um you know for me as
somebody who has thought about suicide
multiple times um
>> what got you out of it?
>> what's that
>> what got you
>> what brought me out of it? um, just
being able to learn more about who i am
and and being okay and and and
understanding that it's okay to share
and talk about the things and the
feelings that i experience where in the
past all i would do is compartmentalize
and shove them down. um, but you know, i
think over the last 10 years, i've
learned that it's okay not to be okay,
right? like it's okay to have a hard
day, but what did i learn from it? how
can i try to be better? how can i try to
not have it affect the whole entire day?
who can i talk to? who can i go see?
what can i learn more? right? like for
me, like i just want to ask questions.
um, and i know there are so many people
in the world that are probably suffering
from similar things that i do, whether
it's depression or anxiety. um, and for
me, i i i want them to get the the the
help and care that they need and
deserve. uh, you know, for me, being
able to see a therapist or having the
chance to see my first therapist, it
saved my life. and who knew that just
talking about things would make you
happy and make you freer and just be
your normal self? um so yeah, for me
it's, you know,
chapter one of my swimming career, yeah,
it was incredible and and um you know,
was something i always dreamt of. um but
you know for me i think the next chapter
of mental health and and um you know
trying to destigmatize it still uh or
get people the help and care they need
and deserve or trying to learn more
about it. um, i just think it's so
unknown um to so many people and and um
you know the you know i guess for me
it's it's trying to help people become
vulnerable because vulnerability is a
scary word right but if you're if you
allow yourself to become vulnerable then
you allow yourself to grow and you allow
yourself to change and sometimes change
isn't always bad right so um yeah i
could talk for hours about it but like
for me the mental health journey and
what i'm trying to do on that on that
front. um, yeah, it's it's there's no
timetable, right? like it's just going
to be a never ending thing and uh
something i look forward to. um, you
know, for me again being able to save a
life is way bigger than ever winning an
olympic gold medal.
>> you know, i heard the president of this
country say something like depression
isn't a thing. get busy working so hard
that depression doesn't even affect you.
and in your case, you were working so
hard and still it hit you. do you do you
buy what he was saying?
>> um, you know, i i depression is
something. it is a thing. cuz i
>> do you think it won't affect people if
they're like just busy working day in
and day out?
>> um, i i think you you know, for me, i
can speak from my personal experience.
um, you know, when i did that, i just
ended up stacking a bunch of stuff on
top of each other and compartmentalized
it inside of me and then i just erupt
like i'm a volcan uh like a volcano. so,
um, for me, like when i go through
depression, it feels like the room is
shrinking on top of me. uh, and i do
feel all alone. um, so i, you know, and
it doesn't matter if i go work out or if
i go and do my everyday errands, i still
feel like [ __ ] and i still feel really
dark and the thoughts that i have aren't
good. but i think for me, it's when i do
have those moments, i'm lucky that i
have the tools that i have to help me
get out of them. that is whether it's
going to talk to my therapist, whether
it's calling my therapist, whether it's
calling my men's group that i'm a part
of, whether it's calling a friend,
whether it's talking to my wife, whether
it's journaling, whatever it is, there
are things that i have, whether it's
getting in a cold tub, whether it's
sitting in an infrared sauna, there are
so many different things for me as a
self-care checklist that if i'm not
doing those every day, that i'm not
being the best me. i i guess i agree to
disagree with this comment then because
i think if you have your routines and
you stick with your routines, then yeah,
you're going to be the best version of
you and you'll learn more about
yourself. but if you do compartmentalize
and shove the things down, they're only
going to come back stronger and harder.
um so yeah, i mean i i i wouldn't ignore
depression spells. i wouldn't ignore
anxiety. um you know, i those two are
things that i can talk about because i
struggle with them. um, you know, i get
i get anxiety when i have to go and
speak in front of 2,000 people, right?
like, but it's it's a part of me like
that's so you'll see me like i'll spin
my ring or i have like i have uh like
crystals that i'll take and i'll just
kind of ground myself. they're just
things that i've learned that that work
for me. um,
yeah. and i i mean, my depression and
anxiety are never just going to leave
me. i can't snap my fingers and have
them disappear at will. i can't. it's
not possible, right? they're a part of
who i am. um i i don't want to say i'm
thankful for it, but um they challenge
me. they challenge me to learn more
about me and how i work. and i guess i'm
thankful for it. it sucks sometimes, and
it's really hard going through uh the
roller coasters of emotions that i go
through. um but again, that's what makes
me who i am. and you know, i i i enjoy
looking at myself in the mirror, this
white beard and this man bun. you know,
i don't see what i used to see. and i
used to see somebody with a pair of
goggles and a swim cap on, not somebody
with feelings and emotions. so, yeah,
the journey that i'm on now is is a
pretty cool. it's a pretty fun one. you
get some bumps along the way, but it's
part of life.
>> thank you so much. i'm thankful for this
conversation.
>> thank you.
>> thank you for coming here. thank you for
spending time. thank you for sure
>> taking us through your mindset.
>> for sure.
>> it was really an honor to
to to talk to someone like you. you
know, in middle of the conversation, you
said somewhere, every time you go ask
the goat of anything, they're going to
say this, this, this, and in my head,
i'm like, well, i'm asking the goat.
>> but it's true. like honestly, like i've
gotten to know a bunch of them and like
a bunch of the real goats and and like
legendary athletes and you know our our
mindset and how we go about our everyday
routine or schedule or job is pretty
similar. it's you know it's again that's
why i always say it's not rocket
science. it's really not. um it's a
mindset and it's
making a choice. right.
>> if you had to give a name to your
mindset, what would it be?
i don't know. i have no idea. i'm bad at
that.
>> think of that.
>> no. i mean, i don't know. it's just, you
know, it's i i but, you know, like when
you say something like that
that i
i i don't know if i can take credit for
all of my stuff, right? because you know
what we were talking about uh knowing
your competitors. it it it's i i've been
able to take borrow what i've learned,
you know, from whether it's other
athletes or mentors or
um just people that i've come in contact
with and i've been able to put it into
my terms and my way and understand it
that way. right? so, i think it's, you
know, i i i i used to hate talking to
people. i used to hate talking in
general. um, but i enjoy having like
really fun conversations with people and
and you know, for me, i'm still looking
for, you know, different ways that i can
change my routine to better myself,
right, from from any conversation that i
have, right? whether it's a retired
basketball player, football player,
baseball player, politician, it doesn't
matter, right? like like for me i'm just
always i'm always trying to learn and
i'm always trying to be better right so
you know i i and in that process yeah
i'm going to be my authentic self but
yeah whatever we learn i think from
everybody and and and you know the
people listening here like you know i
wouldn't say do it exactly my way but
you know the things that that we talked
about today if there's something that
fits in a spot in your life or fits in
your mindset that or fits here. like i
do it because right like that's what
we're all here to do. we're here to help
each other, right? and try to help each
other be great, right? like i i couldn't
have done this by myself. yeah. like i
swam my ass off in the pool for 20
years, but like it wasn't all me, right?
so i think the more that we can work
together, the more that we can
accomplish.
>> thank you. thank you so much.
>> how are you? good. i just got done a
workout, so sorry i'm late.
>> it's okay. it's okay.
>> just got out of a workout and now we're
good to go.
>> i'll go.
>> is you oops.
it's all right. it's all right.
>> i don't know. it's it's very american
thing to get ice with water. in india,
they they don't give you water with ice.
even though we are much hotter country
than you are.
thank you so much for watching this
podcast till the end. please let us know
in the comments what all did we do right
so that we can improve and keep doing
that better and what all did we do wrong
so that we never repeat it. and at the
same time, please give us suggestions of
who's the next guest that you want to
see on the podcast. and don't forget to
share this episode with at least one
person who will get some insights
because one conversation is enough to
give people enough ideas to change their
lives. i'll see you next time. until
then, keep figuring out and also don't
forget to subscribe the channel.