i do want to ask you about disney. it
was a big deal. so, was it difficult,
hard, okay to let go because you had
built something. [music] um,
>> yeah. i mean, the the emotional part
would be, you know, that constant sense
of um whatever, but not regret. i don't
think the word regret would come in.
everything you do in the creative field
gets a lot of limelight and a big thumbs
[music] up or a big thumbs down. so, it
can be quite cathartic. could you share
what your formula is to wake up the next
morning after failure and start again or
keep going?
>> formula i think for you is really
self-confidence.
>> so you do believe that we're lacking in
ambition, gumption, discipline, raw
ambition.
>> raw ambition is different from ambition.
>> 2% top of the pyramid that's going
looking around for funding. most people
are not getting up every morning and
saying i'm looking around for funding.
trust me. specifically to talk about the
future of india and ai. [music] what are
you looking at right now down that
runway?
>> jagard is not a good word if you ask me.
>> okay.
>> it's not a great word because for most
people 99% of the time it's shortcut.
>> you said i want to outlast myself. what
does that mean?
>> thank you so much for spending time with
me today. it's a pleasure
>> to finally be able to sit down with you.
we had some trouble finding the date and
the time and things like that, but uh
i'm so glad we did this.
you are currently i think for a lot of
entrepreneurs and people who want to be
entrepreneurs a voice that you know
people trust because you've done so much
and you started off uh with cable
television and then television and
movies and you've made some fantastic
films and then you were on shark tank
which is the you know what people love
most of all and u you've been an
investor and a filmmaker but i
understand you started off making
toothbrushes
tell me that journey. how did how did
you decide that you wanted to make
toothbrushes and how did it go from
making toothbrushes to making television
shows?
>> yeah. no, i guess that those are early
days. firstly, i think it's very
ownorous when you say people want to
trust your point of views because then
you need to be a little bit more
thoughtful. but i think i am generally
thoughtful. so i think hopefully during
the discussion here, i'll keep that in
mind. uh no, i think at the early stages
you're extremely opportunistic and i
think um i didn't wake up one morning
and said i want to make toothbrushes.
>> so i what i was was i what i was clear
was that i wanted to start something and
do something on my own. what i was clear
was that i'm not somebody who can
implement somebody else's vision and
what i was clear at that stage was that
i'm extremely unclear what i want to do
once i decided that i absolutely wanted
to do something on my own. yeah.
>> so unlike a lot of people today that
finally think they have a good idea or
have this itch that they want to start
something and they need to gravitate
towards a good idea and their criteria
is let me first find the idea or the
consumer pitch or a bad experience i've
had where i think a need a necessity
comes in or where the fund flow is
going. i think at the time which one was
looking at it was much more
opportunistic. so i think the
toothbrushes came about purely as an
business opportunity
where one was in any case looking at
what do i want to do when i kind of want
to build some businesses. see the main
point is when you come with zero capital
>> uh and zero sense of entitlement and
zero capital and in an environment where
there wasn't any capital you have to
start figuring about how you're going to
actually do things without capital in
every sense. so a contract manufacturing
which is what we started with at that
particular point of time. so at that
stage there was a lot of things that
were relegated to smallcale industries
and toothbrushes for example could not
be made by the majors of colgate and
many others. it had to be done by a
small scale industry. so to me when i
read the segment of when i wanted to
start and i think you know the heart and
the and the soul today of indian
entrepreneurship
>> is not what we're talking about. it's
withmemes. it's with the small and the
medium scale. so i think that's i feel
very identifiable with that that i still
think today most people look at
entrepreneurship with the economic times
or the business standard headlines uh
and who's raised funds
>> yes
>> and who's going ipo but the real pulse
is a small scale industry and i think
that's where i started so having read
the small scale industries at that stage
manifesto that talked about which
sectors were protected with the
smallcale industry i said well i'm a
small scale guy i need to start a small
scale business and here's a small scale
industry. so i think it happened that
way and then one figured out what does
one need to do to set up a contract
manufacturing for people who would be
the output buyers for you. today a
foxcom would do it. today there are many
others who do it but i skate in a
different manner and you set up data
centers for people who are doing that.
so i think it's not not different than
what was 30 years back when i was
looking at toothbrushes to what i would
do today if i wanted to set up you know
a sort of a 12 square km data center.
>> so let me let me roll that back a little
bit. you said almost that there was a
bug in you that said you wanted to start
something of your own. you weren't going
to go and get a job. um did you come
from a family of entrepreneurs and
business people? so explain that bug to
me.
>> i educated people versus me being
undereducated. my brother was a phd.
>> uh, and yeah, otherwise everyone's
successful professionals and me at that
stage was
>> oh damn, it looks like you can't get a
job. so now i think you're going to have
to start something on your own.
>> so for people who are watching uh who
young people watching who like finishing
college saying i'd like to be an
entrepreneur but i don't know if that's
for me or should i get a job, should i
not get a job, what should i do? how do
they how do you know?
>> it's a calling. you have to figure that
out on your own. and i think you know
this if you're romanticized about it,
watch out.
>> if you're doing it because three other
people that you always have a drink with
in the evening are looking at that and
therefore you want don't want to feel
left out, watch out for that. um i think
other than that you have to go with your
own calling.
>> so you've done uh you started off with
television then you did films then you
did very successfully edutch. um which
of these businesses brought most value
to you?
well,
>> monetarily and personally,
>> i think in every sense of the word, at
different parts of your journey, you
have to figure out what moves you and
what wants to do. so, again, um,
[clears throat] to brush was
opportunistic,
media was serendipity, right? i mean, i
used to do front of camera hosting. i
used to do theater as a hobby. so i
think just that whole passion of me
wanting to do something that was
expression of creativity at the core is
what guided my earlier days. so i think
creativity was at the core in the early
days that leads to what i think i want
to do for impact. so a lot of people
think you know media is frivolous but
actually it's not. it's a high impact
sector. you're influencing people's
minds whether you're doing it from a
from a news point of view or viewpoint
of view but mostly from a storytelling
point of view and creating characters.
so i think as i spent the better part of
two decades creating characters or and
or greenlighting stories it was it it's
a very ownorous task where you look at
impact. so i think at that stage that
created a lot of value value systems and
i think shareholder value as we went
forward. mhm.
>> right now for example what one is doing
overall in the space of skilling
education um i think that's also evident
that's even more evident that it's high
impact and i think you know sometimes
you look at things from a pop for-profit
lens but i think i've been blessed
enough from a very early stage to look
at things with a little bit of not for-p
profofit lens also when we started our
own foundation. so i think that that
balance has kept that really sharp
balance both for me and my wife right
through our careers as we were building
the organization.
>> when you started in television uh was
there a moment and i know you said you
did it because it creatively drove you
but was there a moment there when you
reach a point you say okay now this
actually seems like something we have
something here that is going to create
legacy it's going to we're going to
build some value here. i would say there
were more times when i felt not so than
so. and let's be clear about that for
everyone here building teams or building
any business. most the times you were
going to feel not so than so because you
know it's also a patience game in many
parts of you. uh media is a hit and miss
game. it's also a thankless job in some
parts. it's highly critical because you
know when things have gone wrong your
public your your failures are very
public as compared to another idea or
something else where you got funding and
you shut a company. everything you do in
the creative field gets a lot of
limelight and a big thumbs up or a big
thumbs down. so it can be quite
cathartic. so i think for most parts i
would say you know it was more like this
is is this really what you want to do.
so that self-confidence and reassurance
that you need to do that says this is
what i want to do especially to get up
from flops.
>> yeah.
>> uh is very very critical and important.
so i think i would say exactly the
reverse.
>> the more you actually find that element
that really is this relevant for me.
>> but at the same time did i feel that i'm
on to something? yeah. i think i feel
every day i'm on to something. i feel
every day i'm on to something. so i
think yeah you need to feel that every
day. i know you've you've talked a lot
about failure and we talk about failure
on the show a lot because i personally
believe we learn more from failure than
we do from our successes and from other
people's failures.
>> failure is a longer period that lasts.
success is okay. now what do you do?
okay, fine. you this worked out fine.
now what do you do? how long can you sit
on success?
>> yeah,
>> but you can sit on failure because
failure makes you sit on it a little bit
longer. what could you share what your
formula is to wake up the next morning
after failure and start again or keep
going?
>> formula i think for you is really
self-confidence.
>> is really self-conidence.
>> but that's the thing that takes a
beating, right? during failure,
especially in media when it's public
failure, when it's it's a little more
obvious.
>> see, you can take a beating even without
getting mugged. you can psychologically
take a beating every single day. you can
you can beat yourself up harder and
faster than most people. i think the
question is what are you here? i think
two of my models maybe i think the
self-confidence on one and i think my
benchmark that i'm here to outlast
myself outlast a business outlast an
idea and i think those themes give you a
very strong balance because at the at
the core is a reservoir of
self-confidence and at the output level
um it is about you know do you know uh
am i going to outlast most people and i
think and i i use that as a theme
because most people have asked think of
the here and the now as soon as you look
at it with a little bit more of a longer
perspective. you're going to look at
anything that's transient. you're make
if you're making decisions 10, 20 a day,
do you really believe all 20 decisions
are going to turn out right? that'd be
foolhardy.
>> yeah.
>> so, should you then start thinking out
that should i do three decisions a day?
because out of 20 only four are coming
right, but if i do three maybe one will
come right. which one is a better ratio?
i think the 20 with the three
>> versus the three versus the one. but
most people would say mathematically.
how does that make sense? no, i'd rather
take three decisions and get one right
than take 20 decisions and only get
three right.
>> but that is the differentiator. that is
the pulse. that's why you get up and
start thinking every single day, am i on
to something?
>> you said i want to outlast myself. what
does that mean?
>> yeah. out. well, in the sense when you
have your sense of real success,
everyone starts measuring. so if you
don't have a huge barometer for that
success and you're looking always five
steps ahead in terms of i'm going to be
around longer than most people. so when
i for example when we exited the media
business uh most people thought oh we
were abandoning that and you know now
i'm a serial entrepreneur whatever that
means and you know i'm here i built
something and i'm selling it. absolutely
not. no.
>> in that process, the only reason we
could unlock that value is because we
outlasted 1,500 other people who were in
media and maybe there were about 20 30
that were there at the end. in that
15-year journey almost, you know, 1,470
would have in some way packed up,
consolidated, gone under. so to me, the
formula of real value creation was one
outlasted, not the exit of it.
>> so survive basically.
>> survival just sounds like a bit of
instinct. i think you know it's like
your daily food.
>> outlast is a visionary thing. it's a
missionary thing. it's something that i
think you need to put there that
>> when you measure yourself that says okay
there have been many competitive
elements where where we got in and you
know where people would say oh but look
what this one's doing look what that
one's doing you know where are you on
this one but look at where this one's
going. and i think if you look at look
i'm going to be around for the next 20
years so why am i getting into a
conversation here i know exactly what i
want to do. it gives you a little bit
more of a singular focus in what you
want to do because otherwise you can be
really pulled. if you're there to
outlast your short-term views, the views
of what people else think, the the
pressures that you feel on a daily basis
because somebody did something right and
said, "shit, why wasn't i doing that?"
>> will be incredible. yes.
>> and actually that'll weigh on your mind
as a failure and a pull down because
failure is not about something went
wrong and somebody gave you a flop,
right? the failure is also about missed
opportunities. so a lot of us get pulled
down because
>> why didn't i think of that is a failure.
now that can either eat you up
>> or you can be even more restless with
yourself to see how am i not going to
allow this to happen.
is that too is that too evolved? is that
>> no, no, no. that's that's perfect. i was
thinking a for a lot of times for
entrepreneurs when uh either they're
doing their round of fund raise or
they're looking for those initial angels
to
>> not the small scale guys not the
mediator guys not 95% of the people
we're living in that you know 2% top of
the pyramid that's going looking around
for funding most people are not getting
up every morning and saying i'm looking
around for funding trust me
>> the people who are looking for funding
they you'll you'll meet a lot of people
say no no no but you know if you did
your business this way
>> or if you changed what you're doing or
if you so there's then
>> you don't want the funer giving them
that advice. yeah. okay.
>> so there's a lot of that insecurity that
builds in okay am i doing it wrong?
should i change what i'm doing? should i
change what i'm doing in order to suit
the people who have the funds? what's
your response to all of that?
>> my response is very stark and very clear
because i think this is the real
quagmire.
>> when somebody's investing in you,
they're very investing in your vision.
they may have a point of view, but at
the end of the day, they investing in
your vision. they're going to spend that
3 hours with you a month or two hours
with you a month, but most the other
time they're going to leave it to you.
that's what they pull in money for. so,
i think it's the job of an investor to
question. uh the challenge with a lot of
those entrepreneurs who go out and are
constantly raising funding is that you
don't understand the diversity of the of
the investors that you bring into your
company. and each of them have a very
different point of view, different life
cycle, different anything they and
they'll each of them will have their
past experiences. so each of them will
say no but when i did this investment
this didn't go wrong. now you got this
reservoir but there are some crocodiles
in that reservoir also in that context.
and i don't mean sharks i mean
crocodiles in the sense is everyone's
now suddenly you have to be a very
mature entrepreneur to be able to handle
in my opinion more than one or two
investors. the minute you move past one
or two investors, i would say your
maturity level has to go up because yes,
you're going to get feedback. yes, it'll
be varied feedback with each of them
saying, "no, no, but this didn't work
for me, this didn't work for them, but
they've always looked."
>> so, i think you have to first seek
solace and look at inputs with people
who have actually built companies
because advice is and i don't mean that
in a flip flippant way at all
>> because on the flip side, the investors
have seen enough failures themselves
more than even an entrepreneur has. so
the insights are very strong, but you've
got to be able to figure out that if two
people say this is not going to work,
two people, how are you going to handle
that?
>> so as an investor yourself at this
point, um do you believe in the
bootstrapping method more or the raise
the funds, go after the market, build
that value?
>> everything has got its own merits. there
are no formulas. i think
>> this word playbook is a is an archaic
word. it should never be used. i don't
know what that means. it's like one
man's meat and another man's poison was
an old phrase, right? what is a
playbook? how can my playbook be the
same as your playbook? it's absurd.
anyone in any sector says, "i've seen
this playbook before." i i think it's a
fallacy. you have to if you're not going
to rewrite this, you can take a few
clippings from somewhere. so, you know,
should one go bootstrapping? i think it
just depends on how and what you want
how you want to run the business. see,
bootstrapping does not mean cutting
corners, right? bootstrapping actually
means you are learning the one of the
best things in life which is a
discipline and frugality.
>> if you can build your business with an
incredible sense of discipline and
frugality, you're done.
>> as um as an investor, when you when you
hear ideas and when you meet founders,
um what strikes you right now about a
good solid business?
no, i think it would be exactly how the
person has been able to explain that. i
wouldn't see sectors are interesting and
i do believe at at different stages
there are different life cycles and
sectors play an important part but at
the end of the day there'd be 40 players
in a segment and the herd mentality in
india or any most other places is very
high. m
>> so even if there was a sector the
biggest drawback of a good sector or a
sunshine sector or an interesting sector
is you know that you have to factor herd
mentality and you have to make a a lot
of divisions you know and
multiplications to figure out how is
this person going to be able to do that.
so actually you have to be a lot more
astute with founders in se in segments
that are really looking like the next
big thing because the herd mentality if
you can't handle you'll be nobody. you
may have a great idea, you will be in
the right sector, but i'm not here to
back a sector. finally, at the end of
the day, it's about the two or three
people that are going to stand out in
that sector. so, i think it's about that
as much as it is about somebody comes
back and gives me an idea on you know
agriculture for example. now, one may
say now what can you do so innovative in
agriculture but it is still 55 55% of
our gdp. so if somebody can come up with
elements in agriculture even though the
next big thing is this deep tech and ai
and solar and xy z i would look at it
because i would look at exactly what
this person wants to build over the next
four to five years why that would be
disruptive at scale how would this get
monetized and how impactful it would
also be
>> there was um there was a debate uh
raised by one of our ministers that
indian entrepreneurs are not doing
enough innovation and they're not
creating um real value in deep tech and
in ai and you know other countries are
getting ahead of us. u the response to
that largely on a linkedin type of space
was you've not created the environment
for us to actually innovate. i want to
understand where you stand because i
know that you're doing a lot of work in
that space right now. do we have an
environment to actually create our ai
capacities, our applications, our data
centers?
>> israel's been at war for all almost 100
years,
>> right?
>> but they've create the best
entrepreneurs in many ways if you ask
me. and i'm not a fan both ways. and i'm
not here to talk about i'm not a pro or
con as far as what goes on in the middle
east right now. but all i would just say
to you is you create your own
environment. can you imagine somewhere
where for 2 years you have to enlist in
the army when you never know you're
going to you're going to be called.
imagine having an entrepreneur ecosystem
that is thinking of innovation. so i
think it's a copout if we think that any
government has to create an environment
of that that we don't need to create an
environment for innovation. there's no
license you need for innovation. you can
go out and do it what you want to do.
this is such a myriad diverse market
here where if you really punch hard on
something you'll get somewhere. you know
20 30 years back somebody decided to
make a fire fire extinguisher and you
know just and that the campaign caught
on and suddenly everyone suddenly so i
think today for innovation you don't
need an environment. i think it's a
complete copout. that's why i gave you
that example that take a small country
where actually that's constantly at some
stage of conflict where you feel
political uncertainty is at the helm.
i'll never know whatever else two years
i have to give to the army where am i
going to start becoming an entrepreneur
but actually you look at that community
you look at that even here today if you
look at some of the business communities
in india they're sharp they're going
about there they're not looking what is
the ecosystem why have we not created
this why is the context so i think for
innovation you don't need permission
>> ever
>> and specifically to talk about the
future of india and ai
um what what are you looking at right
now down that run.
so i mean i think we're still at product
development stage and i think i only
just wonder that the more hype we create
on this the more expectancy comes in
then everyone wants to do everything in
the arena but just to go back to this
whole context of ai and innovation that
we were talking about but you know
there's enough happening in space
there's enough happening in deep tech
here now we don't necessarily talk about
that because not much capital is going
there
>> it's so much more fun to talk about
quick commerce or 10-minute delivery or
the way you can hail a ab or e-commerce
now just those are some of the ones that
have just come about and become a
certain sense of buzzword. so sometimes
the media leads those stories and takes
it in a particular manner. but there's a
lot of innovation happening.
>> i think there's a lot of innovation
happening even the small and medium
scale business. there's a lot of
innovation happening in the farmer
sector. but today when you talk about
space india will come in the top five
countries where anyone talks about it.
why? not by accident,
>> you know, it's not just isro, but it's
everything else also. it's what the
private sector may also be doing as we
go forward. similarly, if you look at
pharma, yeah, we're out there in some
form or the other, there is a little bit
of a tainted uh impression, but mostly
between r&d and our ability to be able
to create drugs at a competitive price
for the rest of the world. if it wasn't
for the western world actually holding
on to prices and a few more few very
large pharma companies today that
actually block out just on pricing you
know and that farmer mafia is a very
different context you may say that
environment is actually choking more
because it's not in their interest
>> to find a cure for cancer or for
alzheimer but that doesn't mean people
are not finding a cure for alzheimer and
cancer today so i think innovation is
you never ever need permission or a
license and you definitely don't want to
wait for the government to create an
environment to do that. what inv you
spoke about theme and msme um should
there be and we we've had so much talk
about it creating
um spaces and environments for the msmes
by sector where they're able to raise
debt easily where they're able to sort
of get
>> i think they do have a that i i do want
to tell you when i started with uh
toothbrushes many years ago while it was
in it was relegated to the small scale
industry and then it went out from there
i don't think you need protectionism
today but at that stage no there was no
way i get a loan.
>> there was no way absolutely i could get
a loan even though it was mortgaged on
plant and machinery because at the end
of the day a personal guarantee of
nothing because i had nothing in my
pocket or no wealth creation of it or
any value whatsoever. so personal
guarantee of a zero value is a is no
personal guarantee.
>> uh so i think this is not about
protectionism. it's not about
regulation. but yes, i think the ability
for an ecosystem to be able to make it
much more competitive that's very very
doable. and i, you know, i think we have
our interest rates where we have them.
but yes, if we had if we had the
innovation that we want to get and if we
propelled that with very low interest
rates, the the discipline on governance
would need to be incredible because i do
believe you'll go first the bad way and
then the good way and that's dangerous
because that bad way means suddenly then
you reverse everything and say see we
always knew we were never ready for this
>> but if you could for the right sectors
you should and there was that i mean
there are export commotion councils
where you get rebates you get subsidies
you get your uh 10% back which is equal
to getting interest free. so there is a
fair bit of that. has that created um
has that created a very competitive
environment? no. it's become a little
bit more of a taken for granted.
>> so normally i'm saying subsidies means
you need to you need to go for it. if i
had this my god i should be able to
triple my thing. it's about now i've got
this i've got my comfort level. so there
i think that raw ambition india we're
still some some way away because i think
our work ethics our discipline and our
raw ambition can be really raw has to be
really raw. it's not that raw.
>> it's got a lot of it's got a lot of
entitlement built into that,
you know, as as anyone says, you want
innovation, but where's the where's, you
know, fine. okay. so, p go said,
>> you know, i can't do ftas. all we want
is protectionism. fair.
>> and you know,
>> most of you are copying. why don't we
get out there and innovate? because
otherwise, what's the point? it's a fair
context to make and it doesn't mean
because it came from the government or
came from a commerce minister. i think
it it it's it's a conversation that
would have between five people there
again saying what is the environment you
would need that is not being compelled
for you to do that
>> nothing stopping me. so you do believe
that we're lacking in ambition,
gumption, discipline, raw ambition.
>> raw ambition is different from ambition
>> is different from raw. how do you like
it? medium, raw or whatever else. and i
don't want to say it because half our
country is vegetarian. so you may not
get the analogy. so i kind of hold back
from that. but i think you you know,
yeah, that see that raw ambition is not
craziness. it's not jugard because jugar
is not a good word if you ask me.
>> okay. it's not a great word because for
most people 99% of the time it's
shortcut.
>> for 1% of the people it's i'm in
solution mode. but for 99% i'm in a
shortcut. yeah. if i can do anything
under the sun to get where i want to
get. yeah. but no, i don't think you can
do anything under the sun to get to
where you want to get.
>> give me give me an example of raw
ambition in your opinion.
>> an example?
>> yeah. i mean, what do you mean by raw
ambition? how is that? there are people
who are building incredible companies
that are people who are actually getting
out there. they're, you know, it's like,
why are you at it on a on a daily basis,
you need that, but you also need the
work discipline that goes with it. and
i'm not talking about a 17-hour day,
don't get me wrong. just that element of
work discipline and ethics um and a
lower sense of entitlement that i think
will make you just say every day is day
one.
it's fascinating because now we're also
talking about um ai replacing humans. um
and there are job cuts happening across
the board across the world.
>> are we calling ourselves humans?
[laughter] are we starting to brand
ourselves? i think it's quite i think
it's quite rude that we you know i don't
want to be called a human.
>> a human. okay. um we're talking a lot
about ai resulting in job cuts.
>> replacing one of us like that. sure. in
fact, it's okay. i don't mind you
talking in the first person. i don't
want to talk in the third person.
>> okay. and and uh the possibility in the
future of robotics on on factory floors
also replacing workers. um
>> but they that's been happening for the
last 20 30 years on factory floors
>> in in a country in a country like india
then where does
>> automation did a conveyor belt did that
some days back versus you know
>> then a conveyor belt did that robotics
would do that you know anything and
everything that that's an ongoing
process it's not a today here and now
it's been happening for a fair bit of
time you know you
you go to a company in norway or sweden
and you know doing something that we're
doing here and you know i went there and
we were having a conversation and
they're doing a $100 million business in
this in the sector and there were 15
people in a really nice lovely cozy high
seating office and i said ah it's a day
off you're working digitally he says no
i said no go said where's the people he
says that's it we're 15 of us running
this $100 million revenue company you
know so this displacement context comes
from where because if you haven't
thought about it that way nobody's going
to replace displace place those 15
people. now that doesn't mean everyone
needs to be at that size, don't get me
wrong. and but i'm just saying that's
going to be a context that is there to
stay. it's like again the entitlement
that i need my job and i'm going to get
displaced. why would you choose?
>> that's true. but for a country like
india which has the kind of you know the
the the kind of
>> yes. we're blessed with 1.4 billion and
a little bit it's also a curse. yes.
>> yes. and if we and when we're talking
about skilling right now, if the
environment is changing so quickly,
where does the skilling go then? where
do we take these people? how do you
employ them? and
>> yes,
>> where do they go?
>> but i think the opportunities here and
the without self-employment
opportunities that are to be created
like where we working with asadesh
foundation for profit
>> again 5 years back when we were training
masons and carpentry and everyone
everyone said i'll do the skilling and i
need to get a job. then they would come
back with a precondition but
so then he's making a precondition to me
that no but i don't i'm not familiar
that's not okay with
>> so i think we need to understand that
that entitlement has gone away today
when we're skitting people 50% of them
the youth have come back and said
i'll get i'll i'll figure my own job out
>> i'll do less work but i'll i'll work for
you know8 80 days instead of 365 days
and i'll earn the same amount but i'll
be a freelancer. so there is a lot
happening in the world and there's a lot
happening in opportunities where you can
look at how you want to manage your
career because nobody else is going to
manage for you. we can sit here on these
round tables for the next 20 years and
debate how we going to get jobs for
people. there's a limit to what the
government can do. there's a limit to
the private sector can do. there's a
limit to any one company can do. each in
sector is actually hiring less today.
that's a that's a fact of life. but more
sectors are opening up.
>> that's one part.
>> we have never been a manufacturing base
and i think the fact that we are now
becoming a slightly bigger and stronger
manufacturing base is allowing that. but
the level of training that's going into
those people 5 years from now if that
had to go and those people go out if
they have 20% attrition every year that
people who i'm just when they're looking
at global standard manufacturing either
an automobile or an iphone or an
electronics or later on data centers
>> in 5 years those people they'll have a
much better base camp for what they want
to do as compared to today there's a
delivery person he comes home.
>> yes. so i'm having a conversation with
him downstairs when he when i was going
for my walk and you know and he's saying
whatever whatever but he's earning 1
lakh 20,000 1 lakh 40,000 rupees a year
right or in that zone but he wouldn't
have been able to do it before but if
he's now not thinking that wow i am
blessed to have got this job in the
first place well what am i going to do
with it then we have a problem so we've
got to get to the dna of that and my
conversation with some of the delivery
boys are this is your today's job what
are you doing for the next 3 years?
because if you don't want to do this,
then what are you going to do? who's
going to offer you a job? why do you
think you need to do that? what are you
doing every single day, you know, versus
i'm a driver in a car, but i'm i'm
actually taking an online course and i'm
going to i'm taking an online course and
skidding because i want to do something
else. i mean, that's raw ambition.
>> see, basically that restlessness needs
to be built in at all times.
>> yeah.
>> yeah.
>> yeah. when i didn't have the money, i
was a i was doing an usher for a daras
singh wrestling match
for many sundays for about three years.
i used to be at the nci here in mumbai
which was in the dome at that stage and
that's where the wrestling matches used
to take place every saturday and i was
in a show.
but why? because necessity is the mother
of invention in that context. why?
because you needed that little sense of
pocket money. i didn't have a sense of
entitlement that if i want to do that my
parents have to give me something there.
that's raw ambition.
>> when you work with the swedes foundation
which has done amazing work and you've
also at this at the same time through
the course of your career over these
several decades built great value with
private sector organizations. are you
also looking at social sector impact in
the same way? i want to see the results.
i want to see the numbers. i want to is
that the way social sector impact should
be run?
>> yeah. no, that's a very good question
and uh we've actually failed on that a
lot.
>> okay.
>> because in the first four or five years
when we scaled up swades foundation
after we were operating in a small scale
uh and then when we divested utv to
disney then we started really scaling up
what we wanted to do in the not for
profofit sector for the first 5 years we
did put targets as entrepreneurs. uh and
actually that boomeranged on us because
>> here you're going to a community you've
got to go with the community to see what
they want to do and they need to own it.
but if you suddenly feel i have a target
to give back, then they'll say, "sure,
come on in. you want to build a toilet,
come on in. you want to give me a water,
come on in. you want to actually do
water focation, come on in. sure, sure,
sure." so, and i think that failed
because that ownership no skin in the
game. and you know, they get dos, they
get grants from the government. this is
one more of those. so to your question i
think is is is the context in india the
ability for us to be able to give back
and work with the underprivileged and i
would even call them underprivileged
actually frankly to be honest because i
think that's not the case everyone has a
sense of ambition and there's enough raw
ambition in rural india i've seen than
many parts of the entitled path that
i've seen in cities that raw ambition is
whatever i want to do i don't have it so
i'm going i'm going to treasure every
single moment of it and when i have it,
i'm going to come back and give it back
to my community because they're the ones
that supported me when i didn't have it.
that to me is also a definition of raw
ambition. so i think uh yeah, that's
what it would be.
>> and also the the challenge within social
sector impact where yes, we've managed
to reach these many people now, but 10
years down the line is it still creating
impact? what happened to those people?
is there a need then to track that?
>> i think that's the core of the swedes
foundation model for us is really to
measure impact which is easy to do. it's
not that easy to do but it is easy to do
because it's a must to do and most
people don't do it. but it is about
making permanent change. all of us in
our lives we need to make you know what
we were doing 5 years back we can't keep
doing today right that's that's
evolution and the question is if you're
doing everything that you're doing 5
years back today you don't question
that. and you may be in the same job,
you may be looking differently, but the
way you do it, how you've grown as an
individual, all of that may happen,
right? and i think that's that's pretty
much what you would do with any envir
environment [clears throat]
where you're working with people who are
who you're building and working to take
to the next level of ambition.
>> i want to ask you about your edutch
company because it was it
>> i don't remember about the tech part. i
think edute came about when a few
companies wanted to raise a lot of
money. yes. and they just they just
thought they wanted to call it tech but
yeah
>> you're talking about the company that
we're building which is in skilling it's
in forever learning and yeah
>> okay so the interesting part for me was
it you you rode alongside on a track
when this whole edtech boom happened and
there was a lot of money chasing that
idea and the boom and then you know the
inevitable
>> the inevitable bust happened after that
and you've got an organization you've
got you've built almost an institution
that's running alongside side almost
unaffected by all of this.
>> you're talking about is upgrad
unaffected by all of what the hub the
hubri about about 12 select investors
backing four select entrepreneurs in a
population of 1.4 billion that hubri
>> yeah we didn't hear much about that
hubri because it was 12 in investors
investing in four entrepreneurs when
there's 1.4 four billion people in this
country.
>> and what is upgrade's focus right now?
>> well, i think it's the focus that we
started and the vision that we started
almost seven, eight years back in the
same context where nobody's going to be
job ready on day one. everyone needs to
be job ready every single day. and we're
in that business to remind you that
you're not job ready every time you
think you're job ready.
so basically, even if you've finished
your your graduation and your
postgraduation, you've got the job, you
still constantly need to
>> finished a great meeting and got a
promotion,
>> you have to do that. even if you even if
you're earning 20 lakhs, 40 lakhs or 60
lakhs, you have to do that. even if you
think you've got a corner office,
though, i think the corner office myth
has gone away. you need to do that even
if everything
>> there's another u interesting sort of
debate that's now kicking up uh about
young people saying do i really need the
mba has that sort of at 22 2122 when i
graduate from university with either an
engineering degree or a bachelor's of
commerce or bcom the route maybe 20
years ago was to do an mba would you
advise that route anymore does it still
make sense
so i don't want to get the mess that
nikl kamut got got into u uh because i
think he meant it in the absolutely
right
>> nonchalant spirit and the way he
communicates and talks. so i completely
have full respect for that. uh but let
me just put i mean i'm not the best
person to to talk about that because
when i wanted to be an entrepreneur the
only advice at that stage rightly so
that my parents my father said is look
okay fine if you finally want to be an
entrepreneur why don't you just do your
mba or your chartered accountancy and
then decide whether you want to be an
entrepreneur because at least you'll
have a you know a bank you'll have
something to fall back on and if i had
done that i wouldn't be an entrepreneur
because i would have gone with plan b i
would have failed which i did fail every
year for many many things and i would
have gone come back and said no this is
not for me. so the fact that i didn't
have that. so i think for each one again
you have to figure out are you doing
this because it's just part of a process
partly because your family has done that
partly because your parents have done
that and therefore you need to do that.
it's a chest thumping moment. it's for
your school crowd. it's actually going
to be an important part of your cv. you
actually feel you don't know how to
think about marketing excel cheating and
you need an mba. and an mba is a
placeholder. you can have a specialized
one. why? why do we keep putting mba as
the only benchmark?
>> right? because as a doctor, you can't be
a doctor unless you have an mmbs or an
md
>> and you can't be a finance chart
accountant unless you do your ca.
>> mba has this soft feel about it, right?
i mean, you can be successful without an
mba, but you can't be successful as a
doctor without being an md.
>> so that's why if you look at just the
mba context, it's that's why it's
personal. if you believe you want that,
then you should go ahead and do it. will
you have to unlearn at least 50 to 60%
of everything you learn there?
absolutely. but that doesn't mean that
it was a waste of time. unlearning does
not mean a zeroing. i think people look
at unlearning saying, "oh, i wasted 2
years because i need to unlearn." no.
>> a lot of unlearning is the process of
actually, you know, it's like any other
manufacturing process. you take, you
know, you take a pineapple and you pulp
it out and you get a certain situation.
you can't say that i don't need the
pineapple because all i needed was the
pulp. so sometimes you need to go
through the process to learn to unlearn
and that's a growing up process. so i
>> i would say there is no oneizefits-all.
if that's what you want to do, do it
>> but do it for the right reason.
>> um and i think today more and more
people are saying i'll be in work
experience for four to five years and
then i'll do it. but then you have
context.
>> in the beginning people didn't have
context. so you can do that with
context. i think the third thing on mba
is because it's a broad label.
>> you can do an mb in data analytics. you
can do an mb in anything today from that
point of view. so that whole cliched
context is there. so it gives you a lot
of diversity for what you want to do
that for and look the optionality is
actually if if you know and i'm not it's
not a plug for me and upgrad the best
way you should do it is online because
you should continue with your imagine
doing your mba online finishing that one
chapter getting a lot of peer uh input.
we have a class of 600 people. we get
peer inputs from so many people and
monday morning you get into a into your
office and you're in a meeting and you
can actually start inputting what you
learned. you won't get that from doing
an offline mba.
>> so i'm just saying the mba cliched
context here is just this one flaunting
horse, the flogging horse so to speak
which people look at versus other
degrees where you just need it as a
minimum qualification.
the other sort of um admired, celebrated
portion of being an entrepreneur is the
exit. the big exit that uh that
entrepreneurs tend to get.
>> admired by who?
>> by the people who then look at the money
and say, "wow, that's a that's a good
amount of money for you to walk away
with." uh i wouldn't
>> but but i i'm i'm entitled to ask the
question to your question. but m by
whom?
>> by the general public. it's oh look, you
know, this person sold their company for
300 cr rupes. 300 cr piece is a is much
to be an achievement. it's an
achievement and you've had a series of
exits as well. um there was the
bloomberg exit, the disney exit. um i i
do want to ask you about disney. it was
a big deal um back then in the media
space. we were all in the media space
all looking at it saying, "wow, that's
massive." can you tell us how that deal
came about after all of those years of
building that organization? yeah, i mean
i think the first way is um one was
around for the longest time and out
there to outlast and one did. the second
one was i think i've been fortunate
enough to have a little bit more of a
broader global perspective and i think
you know my entrepreneural hat with my
creative hat versus being completely
obsessed only with creativity gave me
the sense of scale that allowed you to
look at models that worked around the
world and i think we were blessed to
first partner with murdoch and news corp
then data with bloomberg and then with
disney and i think over the six years
that we had a phenomenal relationship
there at the end of the day so two
things i would say one is uh you know
three things i would say. one is you
stick around and outlast. second, you
don't pop the question of when you want
to exit.
>> somebody else needs to do that. so i
don't think it i had the idea that i
wanted to exit. that came about in a
normal conversation that just sounded
synergistic where you have a significant
strategic shareholder that says we're
doing something on our own, you're doing
something wrong. why don't we all put it
together? makes sense.
>> and i think that would be the second one
as far as that. and the third one is you
can be extremely involved and passionate
about what you want to do in a work life
but you can't be emotional about it
>> right
>> and if you can and if you can segregate
the two the decisions will be quite
natural for you
>> so so was it difficult hard okay to let
go because you had built something um
>> yeah i mean the the emotional part would
be you know that constant sense of um
whatever but not regret i don't think
the word regret would come in there
because once you've taken that decision
then you're moving on from there. yeah.
then you are.
>> so is is was there ever an element of
looking over your shoulder saying, "oo,
they're running that wrong.
>> am i doing something wrong?
>> are they doing something?" so you've
handed over this company that you built
with with raw ambition and love and all
of these things you nurtured. now
someone someone else is running it. do
you did you look over your shoulder
saying, "i wish they were doing that
differently. oh, that was a mistake.
they shouldn't be doing that."
>> no.
>> no. you just walk away.
>> move on. then that's the that's the
element of that. see the the but just to
clarify that no the idea is not for you
after you after you've done that you
should it's like you bought an apartment
you sell the apartment imagine going
hovering around every night taking an
ice cream and hovering around say what
are they doing to this place you sold
you sold the apartment now move on with
life right you think it's a bad example
>> no you that was your home for 20 years
you sold it to somebody else would you
go every time with an ice cream sit
below that and say what are they doing
to my home you wouldn't it's great. i
lived here for 20 years. great memories.
now somebody else is living here. great
memories for them. that's how you should
look at it. and that's the real that's
really when you exit. but i think
sometimes in global the the people who
come in there, it's not about whether
they did it right or wrong. their
agendas change and m&as require the
pursuit
>> of the original vision to quite an
extent. if that goes away, then it can
be sidetracked.
>> you you built a lot of uh you know a lot
of that structure with your wife. you
all were co-creators. is that is that
the correct term?
>> yeah.
>> was there ever a project which you stood
at opposite ends and you know it really
tested your uh your ability to work
together as as partners and as husband
and wife.
>> yeah. well firstly just to clarify that
entire journey. i don't think we were
married before. so our creative journeys
started in theater as a hobby for
example. okay. that's how we met and but
life changed in a different way and i
think much later on we got married. so i
think uh the the creative was first
established the the relationship was
second established. i think in the media
part um the the the context of friction
or anything else was much less because
actually we kind of divided where
broadcasting was something she would be
looking at more and i was looking at
everything else from a corporate point
of view the film studio and everything
else. so i think we got our parts quite
clear. third, i think both of us were
very clear that this is not our company.
the day you have one more investor, it's
no longer your company. then you are the
roles that you're playing. and i would
say to her credit at that stage, even
when she was a creative director in the
broadcasting business,
>> we had a great chief executive officer
who came in and she was reporting into
that chief executive officer. now, one
would say, how is a founder going to do
that? and i think that's how you build
long-term value into organizations and
you look at it that way. as much as i
felt at some stage i may have owned 100%
of the company. by the time i sold to
disney, we had about 25 24 25%. but the
minute you go with that gap, you know,
you're working for a board. so at any
given stage, they can say you're not the
right person to take the company
forward. then you're a shareholder and
not a chief executive officer. and many
of us mix up ownership uh with this
context that you know i own it all. hm.
the story of hungama. uh this was this
was serena's idea. she wanted to create
the channel that didn't exist at that
point and a lot of people didn't see uh
value in the idea. tell us how hungama
was built and how you know you
>> it is it actually was that we were we
were looking at you know having a what i
would call an a manager company or or or
or and in that context broadcasting as a
channels was something that we wanted to
get through. so the the kids segment was
something that was pretty open. in a
sense it wasn't open because you had
nickelodeon and you had cnn cartoon
network and then you had disney. so
actually it should have been a closed
case but we actually felt from a local
perspective that would be the case. so i
think when she came in here she had done
monitor kids shows for some of the other
broadcasters. so that was some knowledge
that says these work much better than
what the entire kids channels work. and
when we were looking at brainstorming
that it was the target group that we
felt was underexploited that was one i
think uh you know for the first three or
four or five months we were doing what
most entrepreneurs do try and copy and
then we realize it never works shouldn't
work get out of it and that's when i
think she took a trip to japan and
negotiated bring dorimon and shinshan to
india which even till today i've got
enough
>> at least she has and i have enough
mothers that says you know
>> this is your fault. yeah, absolutely.
our fault that my kids are glued up to
shinshen and duran and that was a good
turning point along with one or two
shows and i think that's what it takes.
most people thinks it takes some huge
strategy. it takes three four really
savvy steps to turn things around.
>> when you um when you started making
films as a as a film producer, you were
actually at that point fairly corporate
in an industry that was not so
corporate. and you don't i mean most
producers were part of film families.
they were part of that network. you were
a complete outsider if i'm not
>> mistaken. i was more i was an outsider.
not corporate, but corporate, but the
outsider. yes. and so therefore, i
couldn't have this fluffy kind of
conversation. it wasn't one of those
>> let's do things together. i'm on. i'm
on. i'm on. yeah. i wasn't in that group
that woke up and, you know, had a drink
in the evening said you're doing this.
i'm on. whatever happens, i'm on.
whatever the creative idea, i'm on. so i
was the outsider.
>> and what was that like in in the
beginning to you know,
>> i don't know what the other part was
like. so i think i i've never felt the
other part and i've never really
experienced the other part. so i can't
really say what it was like. it was the
only way i could see us being able to do
anything in this sector because when
you're an outsider it's very difficult
to figure out what it is to live in that
home in that context.
>> but all i would say is um what it was
like is that it pushes you to incredible
boundaries
>> because you have to you can't if you
can't beat them join them doesn't apply
to you. m
>> so most of the cases where you feel of i
can't beat him join him. no in fact that
was the first thing to me that that i
can't do what everyone else here is
doing in any case. so for me to be one
more person to do that is out of the
question. it's a bad strategy. so once
you put that as your benchmark and then
you're the outsider then you think of it
in a very different manner. and i think
therefore in our early days first five
films were complete absolute disasters
and flops and 99% of the people who ever
entered the sector would have exited
that.
>> so it took a lot of resilience and
self-confidence to say
>> i don't have a choice. it's a little bit
like if i done my mba the chances are i
may not be have been an entrepreneur.
>> but you did have a choice. you had your
tv business. no
>> people said but you're tv guys. why
don't you just stick to
>> that's the conviction of raw ambition
that you need. you've unless you think
this was not for you and you're right
sometimes you need to pull the plug and
walk away also but to me the definition
of a media company was that you can't
really build a b2c brand by just being a
broadcaster but you needed to do it with
a movie studio you needed to be that
amalgam of situations and whether you
like it or not
>> it at any stage was never more than 25%
of our revenue but it was 75% of our
perception your visibility
>> yeah you're having a nice conversation
with hangama but mostly everyone would
have a conversation about the films but
i said there were nine other things that
we were doing. so on perception, i don't
think we had a choice that we wanted to
be a really valuable company and really
high profile and really understand
consumer needs that we should be out of
this sector just because our first five
films were complete disasters.
>> i find that astounding. i think that's
amazing. but let me for for for our
audience it's actually so young that you
don't know. swadesh, shangi, basanti,
joda, akbar, burfi, chennai express, sky
pink, fiza, laka, namesake, iconic
films.
>> yeah. but so was so was amir and so was
a wenders day and you know so was
koslaka kosla. there were tons of
others. pansen and many others that had
a very different impact on different
people.
>> yes. yes. what was i mean was there was
there a formula with which you chose
your stories?
i think that outsider was you you start
you start looking at younger talent and
i think in the beginning it was mostly
first time directors we worked with or
younger talent
>> but it's also when you don't know then
you find your own access and then
stories have to appeal to you in a
slightly more different manner. you need
to be a lot more gutsy about what you're
backing but enough where we were in
media in broadcasting and many other
sectors for us to understand what
consumers and audiences were looking
for.
>> yeah. and i think we got it right more
than we got it wrong. but we got it
wrong also many, many, many times. there
were films that i would, you know, after
the second rough cut, i knew, oh my god,
we're in deep and i would say
we're the one of the only studios out of
the 84 movies that we made in utv before
i moved out. uh, where three never got
released.
>> oh, you just cut it and you said this is
not going anywhere.
>> just buried it. which is not an easy
thing because to bury a creative process
is not an easy task and it's not the
most i was not proud about it and you
know you have to talk with creative
talent who've given a lot of their time
and effort it's not just money
>> um but you know that's it
>> so you've you've come back now with rsvp
you've made uh you made uri you made
mismatched um is it not with the sambad
we did a lot of interesting
>> is that because fundamentally in your
heart you're a storyteller and you can't
turn it off
>> yeah no fundamentally i i missed that
and i think after the the non-compete of
5 years went away and a few years later
but i knew that this time as a passion
it was much more fun because as a
passion you can say no much more often
than you can say yes
>> versus a business where you have every
business has to be a logical decision
>> but in a passion can be an emotional
decision you want to play golf if you
don't get up on saturday morning you
don't have to play golf
>> not that i play golf at all but yeah
>> you know um the idea of television
and you did news, you did entertainment,
you did films and television. has linear
television the way we knew it. is it
done? is it over?
>> in a country like india, it's still
working right because you still have
that 300 400 million middle of the
pyramid that is still watching it.
>> okay. but are they going to eventually
is everyone eventually going to migrate?
>> so i think the word television today
still says a thing of something that's
fixed on your wall. so i think you need
to move from that. so will even rural
india watch it on a different kind of
screen?
>> yes.
>> will the storytelling and the source be
one which is from an ott platform or
somebody where you can do binge watching
versus a broadcast channel or airwave? i
don't think that's extinct. so if you
look at that model in that context, the
screen is going to evolve. there's no
question about that part. and the
consumption pattern may more singular
versus family. and the subscription
model versus the where you get it and
which signal you get it from is going to
evolve. but storytelling at the core
will remain as a good attraction for
everybody for a long long period of
time.
>> but the theme
>> and then sorry and then with that comes
with the the economics of it right
because the economics is the more you
the more the screen reduces the less the
advertising appeal to some extent. now
other than this mania that we have when
the whole world has moved on from
cricket we have this mania that you know
we and it's great but it's a sport but
unfortunately for us we're not a
sporting nation
>> because we're so obsessed with cricket.
>> yeah.
>> i wish it's fantastic to be obsessed
with cricket but that's why we're not a
sporting nation
>> that we're so obsessed with one sport
and everyone's moved on from that
>> and i think from that perspective here
that's a reflection. so i'm saying other
than in a sport where you would consume
ads and or you would do that not in
commensure with the media rights you pay
for it but that's a different context
altogether i think that's moved but it's
evolved in this particular manner
>> the differentiation is now you can
segregate much more
>> because otherwise linear by nature means
what it means right everyone has to
whether you have that preference or not
the only thing you have is an off and on
button but you can't move to something
else because it's linear. but now
everything is nonlinear.
>> yeah.
>> so everything has moved. screen sign has
changed and it's nonlinear.
>> so right now as um as an investor as a
business person what do you find
exciting about india?
>> i think firstly the opportunity here and
i know it's a cliche thing because
everyone thinks there's an opportunity.
i think that spotting raw ambition for
me is a lot of fun. okay. i i think i i
i have this high high level of raw
ambition and now i can enjoy because i
don't have a fund. i'm just doing it
from my personal resources and therefore
the ability therefore to really be as
selective as one want to be and back raw
ambition
is fun for me. so that's maybe one
criterion and yeah where i think is the
next frontier or bastions of what could
be in a place and the entrepreneur
>> uh will be able to outlast most people
is very very important so because in a
sector all of these sectors are going to
have her mentality can this person
outlast in that context and is he have
the raw ambition or she have the raw
ambition and i think that's the
combination and after that i still know
that i'll get six wrong and four right.
even after all that, a lot of people
come to me and say, you know, i want to
be an angel investor. do you have any
advice? i said, yeah. are you first
ready to lose a lot of money before the
fact that you may make a little bit of
money? because if you're not, don't do
it.
>> and what is a little bit of money in,
you know, compounded annual growth rate
at this point compared to the stock
market that's doing about 12 15% in a
mutual fund annualized.
>> yeah.
>> so, someone who comes in saying, "okay,
i want to be an angel investor. and i'm
going to look through the status,
>> but i want to be an angel investor for a
different reason. sometimes you want to
be part of an ecosystem.
>> an angel investor is not because your
wealth manager sits at 9:00 a.m. and
gives you a 12% uh proposal and then you
know private equity or stock market
broker will give you a 16% irl proposal
and now you think you can grow at. so i
think when you want to be an angel
investor, if that's the only thing
you're going to do, watch out
>> because that could be, you know, it
depends if it's your hard-earned living.
but if it's a pool of what you want to
do, that's perfectly fine. but i don't
but i think that firstly, i don't think
only is is is something that i would
recommend for for that. and you're doing
it for different reasons. you want to be
involved in ecosystem, you want to back
it. there's a sense of great personal
satisfaction. there is no satisfaction
>> in owning mutual funds. [laughter]
>> that's not true.
>> that's not true. what is the
satisfaction?
>> i kind of like it.
>> yeah. what what what do you like about
[laughter]
>> so just and i think it's a great it's a
great way because frankly you are no,
no, no. so let me be clear about that
less that i get any backlash as far as
that concerned as an instrument is
phenomenal because it's giving you an
organized valued value added process.
>> but is it fun is what i was trying to
explain to you. not that is it
intelligent. is it the smart thing to
do? absolutely.
>> is it fun? [laughter]
>> you enjoy it.
>> i kind of do.
>> you just enjoy the the ring the ring of
the hey went up. i started when i was 24
with 500 rupees and then just it grew
with me and it you know so there's a
maybe more a sense of pride than a sense
of fun in in that i agree with you
because
>> fun is you know a very different
definition [laughter] and also by the
way fun means you have to participate in
it
>> yes you have to participate in the in
the in the decision-m and the risk and
stuff like that it's true you've
actually again uh over this over several
decades
>> been an entrepreneur yourself watched
very closely as other entrepreneurs were
were growing. do you find uh there is a
change in uh ambition, structure,
attitude of gen z entrepreneurs? because
they tend to be a very different
generation.
>> they're wired differently than the rest
of us.
>> they're wired differently. but i don't
think this is one with that raw ambition
disproportionate to previous
generations. i think each one has their
pros and cons in what we want to do. uh
but they're wired differently. the
energy level is different. it's a lot.
you're seeing a sense of velocity and
pace to which things happen and
therefore you feel it's
>> a lot more live.
>> okay.
>> and therefore you feel you know because
they wire differently and there's a lot
of velocity and pace and everything's
changing around this can't be the same
as what it was. but was there the same
sense of raw ambition for those with
even bigger hurdles to cross at that
stage that forced you to be a lot more
frugal and more guaranteed to outlast
people? i think that was a little bit
before there will be a few people but i
worry about whether everyone here will
outlast each other.
>> yeah. so i feel like
>> not outlive each other. i just want to
because everyone thinks outlast sounds
like outlived. it's not about outliving.
is there innovation that you find very
interesting coming from tier 2, tier
three rural india?
>> yes. yes.
>> give me examples of what you've seen.
>> and the reason for that is they're
closer to the consumer. they're closer
to the market.
>> they're much more hunger to prove and do
something. they don't have a sense of
entitlement. they don't have the
resources. they've been able to figure
it out frugally. and i think all of that
makes a big difference. but they're
closer to the they're closer. and you
will also find a lot of jugard approach
to that. and again, i think
that's not a great word for india to be
labeled with. it's a little bit like
outsourcable.
>> yeah. it's like you know we a great
outsole now. we don't want to be an
outsource capital. we don't want to be a
labor arbitrage country to anybody in
the world.
>> neither do we want to be a jugard
because jugard sounds
>> see entrepreneural zeal velocity is very
very different from taking shortcuts.
>> is the um and you did say labor
arbitrage and the outsourcing more
countries around the world right now
becoming protectionists. h
>> america is very obviously but others are
also uh
>> and as i would say god bless america
they say themselves as as their parting
phase everywhere else and something god
and i'm saying yeah you should echo it a
lot more because i think you will need
god to bless america at this point
>> at this at this point in time um how
much honest does that i mean put on like
the work that you're doing which is
skilling our people making sure we're
building market making sure we're
renovating
so that i mean we're able to look after
ourselves when these countries close
their doors or slap tariffs on whatever
we're sending.
>> i don't think anyone will be able to
close the doors,
>> right?
>> they wouldn't be able to survive if
their doors were closed.
>> he said we humans as you called us
[laughter] are not going to stand for
anyone closing the doors. yes, you will
have this artificial uh context of visa
restrictions and whatever else and those
are and each one by the way each country
should do exactly what they necessarily
want to do there. uh but i think that's
not very very different. has the entire
geopolitical situation changed here
right now? yes, it has. but let's put it
this way. if you look at china and what
they wanted to do, they've gone about in
a completely no other country would like
to actually do the way they may have
done it, but nobody can not admire in
which they've done it. and the end
result is the people there and this and
the and and the citizens and everyone
else is they may be a little feeling a
little claustrophobic and they may be
freedom of speech. i don't know. i'm not
here to comment on that. but their
economic liberation would not have
happened in a different manner. so each
one i think has to bring their own
destiny for what they necessarily want
want to do. i mean i think you know the
most powerful tool of leadership in
today's day and age is being
unpredictable.
and i think you know if you look at the
president of the united states i think
his key forte is being unpredictable.
now the point is if you're a
pathological unpredictable person then
that can get extremely destructive.
>> but on the on the other side i would say
30% he's put the world on notice.
>> yes.
>> so everyone has gone
>> everyone's gone to the negotiating table
with him.
>> no. so that's a that i think is a
different compulsions of but at least
he's put people on notice. so sometimes
unpredictability as i said if it's
unpredictable every single day and you
don't know when this person's going to
walk in as my leader and keep saying
something that's can be horrendous and
negative but it's also putting on
notice. if i say i'm not going to put in
more money here in nato because xy z
he's putting other people on noticing
now let's all grow up and make those
calls. we're not the the place for the
united nations is kind of gone.
>> yeah. okay.
>> it's a nice respectful institution
incredible institution. great for making
speeches.
they didn't stop the iraq war. they
haven't stopped any other war after
that. they've not been able to do in any
context. so, should they not exist?
absolutely. is there a certain certain
value to each of those systems? but
they're getting less relevant. so, the
united nations is getting less relevant
in that context. and then you've got
different connotations from there. i
think we should this is going to be a
natural progression that countries may
get a little bit more nationalistic but
that does not mean borders are closing
down
>> in that context.
>> yes, we have certain immigration
restrictions that are happen but
countries are should be entitled to take
what they want to do because they have
to look after their own citizens in that
point.
>> but for india i think it's a phenomenal
opportunity because we're a land of 1.4
billion people in many ways. so it's not
like we want more people to come in here
>> but i think the fact that we
>> there's nothing wrong with our people
the great part today is we don't really
care whether the visas are not there for
us to to most of the people who want to
go abroad and study want to come back
>> so actually everything here in my
opinion has only benefited india
>> in the meantime though uh while we are
talking about um you know people going
overseas to study but wanting to come
back because india is where the
opportunities are. we're also as a
country at this point failing on other
points. air pollution for example,
quality of life in terms of clean air,
clean water,
>> the roads on which your kids can go to
school and come back,
>> not get stuck in traffic, just being
able to walk down the street and have a
decent footpath.
>> it's not going to collapse under you.
>> um, are we dropping the ball here
because there is an opportunity to build
great cities of the future?
yeah, i mean the results are we're i
don't know whether the word is dropping
the ball but i because i think it takes
a lot right when you when you've grown
cities in the most haphazard way in
which we've grown our cities and there
hasn't been that kind of level of city
planning to now start
>> as you would call it build ring roads
around it or build rings around it is
not the solution it's still positive it
still needs to get done so i think we're
doing it in a much more tactical manner
and that's a problem
>> um and and i think this context
sometimes when you're building in a in a
democracy and i think even the us faces
that which is the state versus the
center not versus sometimes there's a
lot of things that are depend on the
state that are not what the center can
do. i think that creates a certain bit
of friction in the ability. so now today
i think chief ministers and each state
>> actually needs to form their own
national agenda because there's a sense
of competitiveness that's happening and
a good competitiveness happening between
states. or how they want to really do
well in the national scenario and i
think that's good at least that's one
semblance of benchmark that's come there
but yeah i think on infrastructure
there's a lot obviously to be done but
at the same time if you look at some of
our airports they're world class of our
ports yeah we can take more container
ships than singapore and amsterdam which
is supposed to be the two epicenters for
anything else in terms of shipping
>> so we're building great large
infrastructure the highways the ports
the airports
>> data centers
>> a refinery if you go to jamnagar i mean
jamnagard is not a place where i would
go and think where you you you know you
don't need a buggy ride to go through a
refinery you have to take a car it's you
know that level of scale so we've seen a
lot of those examples also happen
>> would you say also um
now i'm going to refrain from calling us
humans because
>> yeah [laughter] yeah are we doing enough
are we doing enough uh
>> on this on the front of climate globally
that i think is a
>> globally.
>> it's a show.
>> okay.
>> it's a show globally. i agree. and
i think we just got reversed because of
this
>> uh unpredictable leader
>> uh which hollywood movies keep calling
the leader of the free world. i don't
know how where that line comes from. i
feel very irritated i hear that. i mean,
you know, i'm part of the free world and
he's not my leader.
>> so, what the hell are you talking about?
and why do i have to keep listening to
hollywood lines like that? and that's
where the ego gets to a certain level.
but yeah, it's a show, i think.
because now we're drilling in the arctic
circle and we're
>> yeah that is that is a that is a big
toll that this nationalistic agenda many
countries will look at and do because
you're going to move to protect then
you're going to get into the tariff
world then you're going to all spend
more on defense because there are wars
going on around the world and you've got
the one that you fault was your ally
thinking i'm not going to be ally unless
you pay your tariff or you pay me a fee
so the whole trading context x has made
defense budgets go through the roof. so
defense is taking precedence over
climate change. um and you can't argue
with people because everyone's feeling
insecure versus whether i'll be able to
breathe better or will i be alive kind
of context. so everything is a little
bit more life-threatening than what it
was. so i don't have any answers but
other than to say it is a show.
>> that's disappointing.
but are we in in india i know that uh
over the last decade or more there's
been a lot of intent from government uh
pushing us towards looking more at
sustainability at climate change. are we
doing enough in your opinion?
>> no but it's not that easy right because
you have 600 people in rural india and
when you light that wood stove or when
you burn a little bit of that forest
fire or whatever else you do because
that's your habitat
>> right and we've done that. we talking to
people and saying we're going to give
you stoves because we just want to
improve the air pollution. it's your
small little bit, but it's not. and how
we dispose of with garbage in the in the
in in the entire country and what we do
there between burn versus this versus
the ocean, those are big big big
problems to solve there. so whatever you
do is not even a drop in the ocean.
these ones is where i think i mean you
look we're sitting here in this room
mumbai yesterday.
>> great. you could see all the ships in
the oceans way far away. this morning,
you could see a damn thing
>> overnight.
>> so, i do get the sense though that by
the time we're done with all of this and
we look up, the climate change deadlines
would have slipped past us and we will
have no answer to offer
the next couple of generations on how we
messed this up.
>> yeah, i the monsoons are not going away
in india. they're still raining in
november. so and uh you know the coastal
cities i think will have a problem and
maybe you know 20 years from now venice
will be underwater
uh and one can talk a lot of those
situations there. yeah,
>> but it's not just that also. it's it's
actually where you know we're talking
about it from an air point of view. but
if i if you sit down with our farmers,
they wanted it from a very different
point of view because they don't know
what to do with their crops, right? i
mean, otherwise you used to have those
droughts and you had famines, but now
it's not even that. it's like it's
unpredictable. how do i
>> how do i plant crops that need light
weather, but it's going to poor cats and
dogs for the next 14 days or i'm not
getting sunshine where i need to do
that. so if you look at a country like
india the biggest challenge outside of
air pollution is we are an agric agree
based country quite a lot and for our
farmers that's a big problem big problem
the weather
>> again maharashtra this year they've just
not had a break from the rain to so
>> so if you look at farming industry the
fishing industry and here we're talking
about whether you know we can breathe a
little bit of air jogging this morning
yeah sure it's definitely a problem but
these are you know this is our this is
our countrymen that are you know the
fishermen it's a big industry in india a
lot of people does that's one of the
best agriculture and fisheries are one
of the largest self-employment
opportunities right more than anything
else that you're doing here we keep
talking about skilling whatever else now
if those get displaced huge problem
>> if you had to write down uh raw ambition
for india as a unit what would that be
three things that you think that we
should sort of tackle
>> you need an incredible amount of
discipline
>> you know and i and and discipline is not
about just waking up in the morning or
losing weight or xy. it's just that
mental discipline that i think we need
to do. um which i think is very very
important. i think for me frugality,
lack of entitlement and discipline from
raw ambition.
>> from raw ambition. ronnie, thank you so
much for speaking with me today. thank
you. it's been a pleasure.