there was a point in childhood where you
felt that now i have to grow up. small
i had become responsible from an early age. home
there were many financial problems. eight years
till now there was no income and the money was taken on loan.
had happened. so those phone calls used to come at home too.
when are you giving the money? so quite difficult
he had gone through his period. your biggest
which life is at fault? reena and i very much
got married early. i was 21 and he was 19
was one year old. and we just love each other
knew for 4 months before that. like a wedding
you should take necessary steps thoughtfully. that
in the excitement of youth, you do many things
don't you understand? beena and i a lot
respect and have a lot in our hearts
there is love for each other. if you need pin
pointing out is a red flag in itself. first
it was like this when i felt sad or when someone
you used to hurt me and then you reached out to me.
you won't be able to reach. juhi and me fight
it's been seven years. i spent seven years
didn't talk to juhi. you cry i
cry very easily. at least 810 a day
sometimes i cry. someone is your life
the one who meant the most to you
sacrificed. mom, whatever you want to do
you do it. don't hurt anyone. this very
mother had taught me a great lesson. did you feel
lonely at any point?
a trade that you want your
children should never learn from you. that friend man
shouldn't be so judgmental and so
matters of emotions should not be strict
in. is your movie good or bad?
it affects him more that jud
whether a movie does good or sucks.
where is sitare zameen par releasing?
sitaare zameen is releasing in theatres.
in. i am a man of cinema.
have you ever felt hurt? i told my children
has not been given time. i told my mother
haven't spent that much time with. their
i may have been very unfair to you
[music]
is. moving house is a very stressful task
it happens. what day should the packers shift?
get end movers. local packers and
will the movers come on time? will be reliable
what? and what if something breaks? that's why i came
trust porter packers and movers because
it gives booking slots according to your
helpers with safe packaging materials and
safe shifting guarantee otherwise up to ₹5 lakh
now shift back to the same city or
will be with porter in a different city.
make a safety condition with the porter so that
your shifting experience absolutely
be perfect. download the app now. and where
when it comes to perfection, such a person
name of which comes to mind in every scene in bollywood
known for seeking perfection in
are. our today's guest aamir khan. today we
let us know from them what are their red flags?
what is his biggest mistake in life?
is it? what are the things they want
should their children not learn from them? and which one
there are things they want to teach
to your child? how come those films are so hit?
choose? body transformation
what challenges come? satyamev jayate
why was it closed? where is his new movie now
will it be released? how did he share his romantic
have you dealt with relationships in your life? we
aamir khan is known for perfection.
but today his candidature is imperfect and
both will be seen perfect. enjoy the
show.
are there any points in your childhood?
well now i have to grow up. now i came
have grown up?
i don't feel that yet.
but maturity what do you feel? which ones
on point? every child feels it at one time
no, now there is accountability. us big
it's done, friend. at what point did it feel like this? someone
some come in 30 years, some in 10 years, 10 years
comes in. what was that point for
u? there were many financial problems at home.
abba jaan who was making films. usually
but people think that in the producer's house
there will be a lot of money. film producer
there is no truth in this
is. most producers struggle a lot
let's do it. you know to make ends meet.
actually one of his films got stuck for a very long time
was. locket. ok. it took 8 years to complete it.
so about the dates of the actors who were there.
problems were happening.
the film was to be made in a year and a half
in a year, but they kept dragging on for eight years
there was no income in the house for 8 years.
and because father took the money on loan
hmmm interested
36% yes top level interest very top level
yes
so there was a there was a rough patch in the
middle you know so when you did too long
rich as actually when i
financial problems are going on at home
because not everyone even realizes
it makes sense only after saying no. no don't understand
comes in because in our house he
i used to get phone calls also, now when are i paying the money?
who paid for the films?
the film was stuck till the time we started the film
it will not be released, you will not be able to return the money.
so he was stuck in a u know in a vicious
circle that no one is giving any more money
the film is not moving forward, not moving forward
until the film moves forward
the film will be released only if the money will not come.
if money comes then it will be through a very difficult period.
passed by and i remember when i was young.
i used to play tennis a lot. competitive level
i used to play. and the money i used to earn
i keep that with my mother through tennis.
was. and i knew there was trouble at home.
i used to tell my mother that any thing of mine
you have to buy, you have to buy shoes, clothes
have to buy. you take it from my money. so
when i'm saying all this i am
since a young age i have been realizing
had become responsible. is there anyone?
values and anything that comes to you from your father
is. yes. abba jaan, there was one thing that
was a very strong personality. give up
didn't give up. no matter how much trouble
be in front of them and they
have suffered hardships. he used to face him.
didn't give him up. so that i
learned from them
is. second
he was a man of his word. had said
right now. yes. so i remember that many times
it happened when he told the actors this
i don't have time or money. movie you
let it release. when the film earns i will tell you
will give. i remember dutt saheb told me
told that your father had injured you.
i thought maybe i wouldn't get the money.
but that film was released and tahir
sir came to me and gave me all my money
gave. so he said so he to you know he was a
man of his world. hee to stick to hee
commitments.
so there are a lot of things i've learned
from him or we called me abba jaan
when we used to listen to stories, he used to tell me
always remember the story ends
when the writer was a director, he used to say
that you tell your story in one line if
you take your story one by one, not in one line.
if you can tell then the film will not be a hit.
i was young and i used to think that poor guy
it just took 3 hours to tell the story in one line
how will i tell you, abba jaan, you are very unreasonable.
but later when i grew up
if i understand more about film making
i realized what he actually said
i was your lover, what are you saying?
tell me in one line what you want.
mari chhotis is less than chhotis
this is the story in one line in dangal or
if you understand what i am saying then
what is the premise what are you trying to say
what can you do if you can't speak in one line?
if you want to say then your film
you will be confused tell me about one of yours
failures where you thought this was
this is the biggest failure and which still
hurts you probably one flop and one
failure that still affects most
i also like my films which did not work.
when we told her that she had not come, i too felt
that's right, that magic shouldn't have worked.
it hasn't come, it hasn't been made, okay friend?
i too thought the public was speaking correctly.
that won't work but a film that i did
the one that made me feel very sad was lal singh
chadda ok lal singh chadda i thought that
we made a good film hum to mere
emotions were with the film and i felt that
yes, we have made a good film but
if the public didn't like it then it was very
it was a big emotional hit for me and for so long
i haven't had any unsuccessful films till now.
neither my two films one after the other
failed. one at all
thugs of hindostan but i am in it
it was not a surprise because i also like thugs.
didn't like. just see today i will open up
i can speak better than adi and victor.
i tried them, but they are not all there.
would go.
when the film was releasing, i was also happy
wasn't. let me tell you a story.
kiran, who is my ex-wife, knows
that man i when my release comes, give
i don't sleep for months. like like
these days i can't sleep at night
can't sleep. mind work overtime
would happen
is. before the release of thugs of hindostan
kiran told me one day, the release is nearing.
has gone. you are sleeping very peacefully.
what is dizziness? so such rays because i
i know that film is not going to work. my
there is no excitement inside. no one
anticipation is what i'm waiting for
that people will watch my film. i would rather
my heart is sinking that people will love me right now
they are going to watch the movie and they are me myself.
i'm not happy myself movie
but the producer and director are happy.
well, what can i say?
in lal singh chaddha, at least in that film.
when it didn't work, i knew somewhere
there was no feeling from inside, i didn't know it.
it will work ok i was 100% noisy it won't work
i had no doubt did you
express that ya ya i express it very
strongly to the end victor but they were a
confident of it. look at them too
i don't blame. this is creative work.
you can go by your instinct only.
fair to the director and producer
the instinct was that we have made a very good film.
made. this is going to last a lot. i thought
no, this film will not ask for water.
i told adi. watch when a man dies
doesn't he say water?
water. and sometimes he even asks for water
there is no strength. so this phrase comes from there
came. ok. so i said this film is water
will not even ask. we
well, that's what happened, otherwise yes, that's why i
not such a big disappointment at that time
had happened. disappointment and what broke my heart
that was at the time of lal singh lal singh chaddha.
because i liked that story very much.
maybe it was a remake and many people like forest gum
had seen it, maybe that's why it didn't work or
people could not connect. i think mine
the work was not good. i think i
pitched the performance too high
was. so that character didn't connect people.
with. hum a toh woh movie hum log wrong
went. i think we went wrong with that movie
in. but my emotion with that film
it was very deep. so that's why its hit so much
it's too much for me. too much happened. and
for a long time i thought that man
maybe know
no
well one more thing during that time
getting interesting
was. covid time
and at the time of covid, lal singh chaddha
half was done. exactly we are half way
were in. half was done and half was to be done.
when covid came, we stopped. all all work
stopped. so when the work stopped, i
got a lot of opportunity to think. of my career
from the beginning when i was 18 years old
from the time i became an assistant till covid
i am in that madness and that intoxication and that cinema
i was so lost in the romance of
sometimes stop and look back at your life
i can't see what's happening to me
in life
because that intoxication of cinema is too much
it happens and well, it's very bad for me.
if it is more then it is compulsory because of covid.
pause has come
i couldn't find anyone to work
was not able to. locked in the house
was. so that one force gives me a chance to think
and when i started thinking, my
when i started looking at life, i
realized that friend, i have given my children
time has not been given. i told my mother
we haven't spent that much time together. reena,
kiran, my brothers and sisters who are my people, very dear to me.
have been close. i probably had a lot with them
it is unfair.
and when this thought came, this thought came very quickly
i began to grow and i felt very much myself
started blaming. guilt too much guilt
i went in. and i felt very bad
that man, this was a big mistake on my part. this
i might have gone blind. well when i
when i tell people they think i know.
no, i have been such a harsh father. not even like that
is. compared to other fathers, i am still
was better. if i tell you frankly.
because i am still with my children
very good connection. but my attention
did not live. my attention was somewhere else. we
so that was a big realization for me.
and then that thing
lal singh etc. had been created. so i
the time had decided that i would do films now.
i will leave it. me movies after today
i will not do a single film. so angry
i came on myself. and at the cinema
the one who kept me away from my family
it is a very illogical thing. i love you emotionally
the reaction was telling. at that time i was so
i was in guilt and i had such a breakdown
i actually literally had a breakdown
had gone. so i was in a very bad condition and
i called my family and said,
i am very ashamed that this happened to me and
i'm going to correct this. after today
i will not do any film. red lion half
is made. after completing this, release yourself.
will do. that's it. then again i have a family
live with
is. so the family was also shocked to hear that this
what is the man saying? so they thought that
he is saying so much about cinema
is crazy. will never be able to leave in life.
there is no chance. the same for us children
there was a response. but what happened actually?
i left
was. and i called advaita when covid
when the work was over and started, i read advaita
called. i left my hand, now i am behind.
i am withdrawing from the film. as an actor,
my responsibility as a producer
i will complete it. not even a step back
i will move away. i am a team player. but what i
i have come forward in every department
i would not get involved. you
people are very capable. advaita you and all
directors, all the hods are very capable.
are. i am not needed at all. my
there was interest so i got involved
it used to happen. you don't need. you guys right
will work. so i am not in even a single meeting
did it. editing was done by advaita. i just
we used to check the work of the producer.
is. if i didn't like something
i used to get it done again. but that producer
's work comes last. we
so i did that already action and
had stopped going to office. when i
started ayra who is my daughter
he founded a non-profit called agatsu.
opened a company that works in mental health
does it. so i go to office with ayra
felt. what actually happened? when i did this
if the decision is taken
now prasanna was also waiting for the stars
when will it start? so i thought man now i
let me tell him that i am not doing it.
because i told someone in the industry
it was not that i was retiring. me
there was no need to make any noise that i
i am retiring. and i am doing this, that
i am doing it. i told you anyway.
my films come out every three-four years.
is. then lal singh will come and go. to the people
its film will be shot after three-four years
will come. when she doesn't come, they will forget
because i do so few films
in today's dates people forget. much ahead
leave early. so let me speak
there will be no need. three-four years when people
if you ask i will say yes yes i will leave
i have finished. something so big to me
all this announcement was not to be done. so anyway
what happened was that one day i told prasanna
called
to say to chennai that brother now you
look at some other actor because i'm ahead
not working. now this first meaning
i am the first person in the industry to speak to.
i was going to leave films brother.
i am. so a day before that my children
explain to me what you are going to do?
i said, i am going to speak to him in the movie.
i am saying that i am not doing films. so
give it to me, what are you going to do? so i said
i am with you guys right now
will spend spend time. so that day
he said, you have been doing that for six months.
what happened now? it's a little too much.
we also have life. give us some space
we also need some space. so i said
oh man, this is a mess. so he
where actually they are being very
practical and aira that white board
made. he said that you are completely in agsu
be involved. these 12 things in hum agasu
making plans for the future. from this you
what things are you going to do? so i said
these are three things. hmm how much is yours in this
will it take time? i said 15 taka hmm. so now
what will you do with the remaining 85%? like you guys
will stay with you. i haven't spoken much yet
it is done. and junaid said friend you
come like a pendulum. the clock's pendulum
isn't it?
you go straight here from here.
so there is something in your center from here
no. do you stop on the left or right?
extreme. i am an extreme personality
so you are either doing it in the movie or the day
if you are just doing the same thing and you are not doing it then
not doing it at all. so this is you
dad you always say extreme
have been in extremes.
try to get into balance a little bit.
you can also work for 8 hours. after that
come home at 6:00. stay with us.
so he actually explained to me that you
one should not leave films. how do you
lower this voice in your head that when you flop
yes, and after that, i will do a little better.
could or good things could go on or i
be now, i don't have that charm left in me.
if voices come then of doubt then how to kill them
do it, there is no way in your mind
to kill
see, i am a very realistic man.
that is one of my strengths that i can control myself.
i don't fool. when i do my work
when i see it i understand that
this is weak. here i have made a mistake.
i took this wrong decision.
so self analysis is very important.
for. so i think he is very much mine
we are sharp and that is a good thing
is. i am a very emotional man. so when someone
i lose something, whether it's a person or
my work should be a film on which we get so much.
i expected it but it didn't connect at all.
i feel very sad and i
i celebrate grief completely, i stop it
no
i live in that depression and i
don't hide that thing
am and then
i snap out of it.
and then the mistakes i have made
i look very technical to understand
by analyzing whether or where things are wrong.
i went this time, i made the same mistake again.
let us not repeat the mistake but again
don't make that mistake again yes
so i take it very positively after a
point first i get pushed and i
i collapse completely, shatter but you
analytical pick came
one by one i stand again
that yes it was wrong, it was wrong. now you
you have to do this next. and i really
try and learn from my mistakes.
because actually you are the most yourself
you learn from mistakes. and mine for so many years
there was no flop. no failure
the film did not come. first time lal singh
the audience was thinking something else. i something else
was thinking. so i was shocked. that blow
felt. so i used it completely
did to understand where i am wrong
i have gone. in every way in performance
and i have a fine sense of humor.
javed saheb has said one thing one thing
javed saheb, i respect him a lot.
he said just see the sense of humor
to make you laugh or to improve your mood
doesn't happen. ok. sense of humor actually
the suspension inside the car
has a sense of humor.
when you are going on the road and the road is smooth
so if there are no shocks then you will feel off.
there is no need for humor. but
when you find many potholes in the road of your life
and your car is in big potholes
you are going to get big shocks which will change your life.
gives you shocks. at that time if your senses
off humor is strong so it will help you
it happens. it absorbs shocks a little
goes. you make fun of him. you
you make fun of yourself. you situation
you make fun of. you see it in a lighter
they and you are fine, it's okay, my friend.
it has happened with me too. either the ability to do that
is actually a sense of humor there real work
comes in. javed saheb says that
the real work is to have a sense of humor. when
you are going through a difficult phase of life.
and in those difficult times, if you
if you can laugh then that path gets cleared.
that path gets cut off. i agree with
snow. so i feel that's the kind of
person i am. i own my mistakes
i accept and try to improve them
i try and i bounce back enough
i do it strongly. so according to you
what will be your biggest mistake in life?
in? personal professional anything? the biggest
oh boy, mistake. i should tell me in personal
life. what do you think is your greatest
mistake? i have made a lot of mistakes. not one
but i think man he made mistakes
because of what i am today
i am here only because of my success.
but i am also there because of my mistakes. right now
i say a simple thing like this, i am reena
and i got married very early. we the people
i was 21 years old and she was 18-19 years old. we
but which legally first day
was it possible for me to get married 21
after turning one you get one month
notice has to be given. so 30 days there
let's go. so on march 14th when i turned 21
what if one month's notice is given after that?
it becomes 14th april. so but saturday
sunday was coming, it was the first day there.
the marriage of reena and me was legally possible.
that was april 18th.
the earliest date that was legal
acceptable for us to get married 18th
april 18th april and we got married on
18th
april and we love each other only four
knew the month before that and those four
even during the months we talked to each other a lot
we spent a short time, there was a lot of love in our hearts
was each other
there was a lot of love for me, that's why we got married.
but today when i look at me
think maybe marriage so soon
as necessary
you should take steps thoughtfully. at that time
in the spirit of youth you do not know many things
do you understand? but later you realize
it happens. although my life with reena
it is very well cut. so you from this
do not imply that reena was at fault. we this
i don't mean anything at all. ah but reena
is an amazing person and we are kind of
we grew up together because we are so
reena and i were young when we got married.
we respect each other a lot
do and have a lot of love in our hearts
there is love for each other. a
but she thought so quickly
at such a young age, in such a hurry
perhaps one should not take a big step today when
i see at that's one example that
maybe i'm not that but if i'm not that
if i had done so, i would not be sitting in front of you today.
would have happened. so i don't consider him a mistake either.
can. that's why i can't accept it
because from him give me such things that i love the most
junaid and iram have given me big gifts.
met at that wedding.
i got to spend 16 years with reena.
so now all these things are not mistakes.
these are good things.
so it is difficult. that's kind of my mistake.
i will say that you decide within four months.
lia, you are getting married. such a big decision
you took it so quickly
took. so many such things have happened to me
in life. but i think somewhere
at some places she is right. man makes mistakes
learn from it and the mistakes you make
then your life becomes that. we then you
find your happiness in that life
yes. so that is a journey. would have been a journey
what is yours is mine. today when i see
i think friend, if today's date
i should meet someone and get married in 4 months.
i can take a decision. no all my life
have to live with it. am i good at that
i didn't even do therapy at that time. nowadays
i take a therapy. takes a lot of therapy
if i am, i have a chance for self reflection.
got it. got it. myself i
i have been able to understand. we red flags me a lot
see you soon. right now
do you understand what happened to me? so that
i believe, i mean, i think, man.
i wish i'd gone to therapy when i was 18
would have started. hmm.
so i would have understood life in a very
different way. you know i know you know you you you
said red flag. yes. so if you have pin
have to point out a red flag in itself that
because in your first marriage you oh!
broke up. oh my god.
ah put out one trait that may be this was a
trait i was not able to give. i think the
the one trade that i would say is that i was to
lost in my films. that's the fact. so
your red flag is alcoholic and you was i
was a workaholic that was i would say a red
flag. yes. what other red flags would there be?
your? i was very emotional earlier. meaning right now
but when i get hurt.
meaning i was like this earlier. i am still improving
i have gone. earlier it was like this when i when i when
i felt sad or when someone touched my heart
if he used to break or hurt me then like
the shutter goes down
well, shutters used to come all around me and
after that you can't reach me
you will find that the steel shutters used to fall with such a thud.
so i remember i talked for three-four days
he did not do this, he remained silent and
in front
that's not a good thing as i remember.
one day kiran and my husband and wife
it just happens that i don't even remember what happened.
there was some disagreement and i felt very hurt.
i met kiran so i talked to her.
stopped doing it, now we live in the same house
sleeping in the same room the same bed
we are sleeping but i am talking about them
i am not answering things cut to cut
i am keeping it with them so let me know the address
i am saying that i am not happy with them. one
it's been a day, it's been two days, it's been three days
it's been four days. now the man who is your
think about the situation that is in front of you. him
i am feeling very hurt because of this man.
i've hurt my heart and now i try
i am trying to win him back. that response
he is not responding at all.
not responding at all. so much
so hard, he talked to me on the fourth day at night.
was trying to do and i absolutely
was not responding. so at one point
crying
it started. and he said i don't understand
now what should i do? you are absolutely correct
you are not doing it at all. nice interesting thing
this is that at that time there were two emotions inside me
are running. one of my anger
there is an emotion that i will not forgive. ego ego
ego and you know deep hurt ego is a way right
word for that stubborn hum
a that i will not forgive. ok his
there is another emotion running through me as well.
inside and that's what i see that
she is hurting and i am hurting myself.
i am saying, what a fool you are, friend.
don't talk about how much she is trying.
is. it's been four days, friend. how come you are like this
how can one be harsh
is it? talk to me, friend. leave it. i myself
i am also scolding. but i can't
is. i am not able to take that step. i
i am not able to say whether it is okay. leave it
friend. that one side inside me i myself
i am scolding. these two things go together
has been.
so now after therapy i understand many things
i came. but so i this is a lot of mine
you said a big flaw, isn't it your red flag?
is. this was a huge red flag of mine
that i used to get so hurt that i then
he did not forgive the other person. juhi
and i have had a fight. it's been seven years.
i did not talk to juhi for seven years
of. while we were working together. from
i was upset over years and small things.
from him. and i didn't talk to him for seven years.
of. and juhi had tried hard.
i didn't budge. reena
she used to tell me, friend, how are you doing?
meet him and finish it.
no, i have seen the stubborn king ansani. yes, he is.
raja ansani and i don't take that child like this.
i don't want to hear anything from him, i am like this
my
most of us i was reading about
psychology that we are majority times
with our loved ones whenever we get angry
we behave them that way
are with them in which we feel that
you will learn the most lessons
us. indirectly we do that to them.
so probably we would have hurt you by letting you go.
and you think i can't forgive this
i will because if you forgive so quickly
if given, he will not be able to understand that
how much this has hurt me. a lot
how can i say this easily? understand this
it should be known what its depth is. how much
must be badly stamped. to be tortured
need a little. and because of this one more time
you do this one day and we give it internally.
the brain keeps telling you that this is right and
then the fight starts and one
the side is your love there you feel that
man, what are you sorry about, it's okay
ok we're to live for ever but the other side
lessons from what subconsciously you're like
you will learn a lesson not from them but from yourself.
that's it, friend, we are getting stuck, stuck, stuck.
and everything is done subconsciously.
absolutely right no one cares
screams and hurts, someone leaves and goes away
is it someone's? you first extra you first
was asking do you get angry? so
i get angry and become silent.
by isolating yes i would remove myself
i am. we, that is my nature. i would have remained silent
i am. silent one is very dangerous.
passive
i was very passive aggressive. right now
i have improved a lot. where does it come from
this? don't know where it comes from, friend.
must be coming since childhood. that's what most
therapist tell you that's your childhood
voice is what you have for your first nine years.
many do. they shape you.
i don't know if it must have come in childhood itself.
what is? although my childhood was very happy
has been. it's been quite a happy
childhood fun. when you get angry like this,
you fight or something goes wrong. do
you cry? i cried very easily. otherwise
last time you cried?
5 minutes go. at least 810 times a day
i cry. i mean, tears came anyway.
let's go. yes. i mean, i am as free as i can be.
i laugh so freely. that easily i
i cry. i can't control my emotions
i do. so if i feel like crying, i will
i will cry in front of you.
and while discussing, i cried once.
i am staying. the rest is me explaining my point.
i am. i will not leave that. he in his place
is. but sometimes it happens that you go alone
you weep. yes yes. many times many times
when was that when did that happen weeks
months ago years ago
which is my major if you say that you will cry
it's been a long time since the breakdown occurred.
it's been a little like this in the last two years, isn't it?
has happened
what happened personal reasons you say professional
a personal professional professional, i am very
was depressed at the time of lal singh
all before that nothing big is mine
i am not depressed about work
a: mostly it has happened personally. you personal
we have sacrificed life to some extent
to a lot of extent for professional career
is there someone in your life whom you can
point out and be like who for you
sacrificed the most. mother my
mother. why would you say that?
i
think right from
childhood are it's not just my mother i
think all
mothers are their instincts, right?
mother's one
the one voice that comes from within is always
it is for children. their upbringing their
take care if he is not well then mother night
will be awake and will not be able to sleep. okay, you are home.
you haven't come by 10:00, it will be at 11:00
mother will not be able to sleep at 12:00 or son or
the daughter went out, is it safe or not?
no matter how sleepy she is, she won't sleep.
these sacrifices are made daily.
sacrifices are made every day, so when you are a child
you are born and you become 18 years old.
so she is as old as her mother in 18 years.
she sacrifices us for her
cannot compare. not even close to that
come
can. so i think mom is the one who has
sacrificed a lot. not just for me but
for all the four of us. for all four children
the sacrifice that mother has made. which
one
thought selflessly for the children and
lived for children. the most or i
from the wood my mother's than the same. we friend they
don't just think about your health.
they connect with your emotions.
they know what you like
bodhar is doing. is it bothering you or
what's exciting? so every one of them
would have known the thing.
like i got so excited about tennis
used to do. so i can't sleep all night
was. there is a match the next day, so i will sleep at night.
couldn't find. as soon as the release comes,
i can't sleep. same excitement.
so when i used to go to matches, my mother would
knew that man, this was his full focus match.
is on. so when i returned in the evening after the match
amma used to be waiting for me.
it never happened that someone else opened the door
has opened. there is no chance. my bell rang,
amma opened the door. what happened? win that
lose. hmm. first
question. and i remember an incident.
i have also said this many times. heard you too
i give. it had a deep impact on me.
amma always used to ask me what happened while i was alive.
that i lost most of the time, i used to win, okay so i
he used to say yes jeeta let's go thanks shi
to give me a hug and ammi loves chai to hum
people had become accustomed to tea since childhood.
she used to make tea, we used to sit and drink tea
what happened one day, i came home just like that
amma asked whether we won or lost.
i said yes, we are alive, thanks!
we were sitting in the hall drinking tea and
mummy mummy
said suddenly out of the blue
the boy with whom you were thinking today
khela, he too must have just reached home and his
amma must have asked him whether he won or not.
i am defeated, he must have said
lose. so at this time his mother feels bad
remained
will happen. this mother
said i was so shocked to hear. one at all
i thought that
the boy who lost to me
must have just gone home. his mother asked him
amma must be feeling bad. suddenly i think
i was wondering whether i made any mistake in winning
of? suddenly i also started feeling bad. friend
his mother must be feeling bad right now. we again
i looked at mom. i thought mom
where did this thought come from? she also named the boy
mother doesn't know. so didn't see his face
is. so mother has this quality that she
another man's
she understands and catches pain very quickly.
is. caring is different for every person
there are intelligences. joe intelligence of
there is a lot of caring in my mother.
is. so his mind automatically went there.
that friend, she is a mother like me who
must be feeling bad at this time. that mother's
they are feeling bad because of this.
or the one whom they haven't even seen whose name
even if i don't know, it has a deep impact on me.
but that incident happened in
i was probably 11 years old, i can't forget.
we did not find that he has stayed with me and
that was a big lesson she taught me i don't
think she was teaching me a lesson too.
was she actually sharing her thoughts or something?
realize me while sharing that shot thought
what happened was that mother said something very big.
actually i learned that from that day
that friend, don't hurt anyone.
should and every man you think about
should. we often think we are right
no i should say this. but what is
think about the other person also. every man's u know
every person has his own emotions. which you
you have to do it, you do it. don't hurt anyone. this
mother had taught me a great lesson. ever
did you hurt my heart? unknowingly unknown. no
it has hurt. there is no such person who
can say that i have won someone's heart till date
didn't hurt. knowingly unknowingly sometimes
knowingly sometimes unknowingly.
yes, this is true. knowingly for because of you
are obsessed with us.
different reasons. sometimes you some things you
have to do what you know you shouldn't do
should. but at that time you do it. then again
later you realize that he is not
should have done. hmm.
mother used to say that humans are full of mistakes.
mannequin
is. i still remember my mother's sayings.
is. a wise enemy is better than a foolish friend.
it happens. you know she too says all these ones
liners. they have stayed with me.
a one
one silence is better than a thousand words.
sometime a silence actually says
a lot or
you know me, you were talking about mom.
i know one thing about my mother. me
don't understand. i think everyone's mom
it will definitely happen together. i live here in mumbai
in. i will go to indore with a surprise till today.
haven't found it. oh when i want to surprise you
i try. i don't have a time like this
when i arrived, my mother was not standing at the door. o
they get an instant that i come
i am going to. i don't know how she comes to know.
and i always thought that this time
surprise. something surprising this time
will do. my mom sleeps at night
at 10:00. once i went 11:30 12:00
at night. now i am surprised that i feel this way.
it was felt that he was going to come. just once
7:00 am i'm going home and my
mom gets up at 7:30 and then we
there is a little late start at home.
everything starts at 9:00 in the house. 7:30
at o'clock my mother was standing with a lamp. me
it seemed that she was doing puja at home at 7:30.
she says today i was in a hurry and i
i thought you would come.
will come. i don't know how this happens.
beautiful that
she is able to do something like this. you did
movies you do a lot of movies on parenting.
we yes yes as it is turned out yes it is
i didn't think about turn out but yes
and i will talk specifically about the two movies.
one riot and three idiots of both of us
maybe on parenting style and tarji
it's just parenting. i'm talking about two
i am because both are fine. is oocyte.
there is a lot of excitement. one is three idiots. yes,
quite an authoritarian type style in one
that's the riot that's the riot that i i
i will decide, i will be disciplined. i
i will be hard on the children, on the children
make discipline train. one is for the children
let it go and do whatever you want to do. this is the message
if you don't let me do that movie buddy, then
children realize this because of the virus in the end.
it happens. correct. you have to give them
freedom. freedom. so there is a permissive one
there is authority. so completely different
with style. which is better according to
u? see, it often happens that we
when working in films,
i personally think that we are that character.
there is no thought. ok
so my thinking is that we should give children
freedom should be given. every child has his own
has character. it had its own merits
is. we and we often misbehave with children
let's stop from. no children should be devils
should. that is their period to do mischief.
we
so there should be a little rebellion in the child.
he should discover himself. that
will learn by making his own mistakes. everything we
if you keep interrupting him then he will become like a robot.
it will be done. so i think the kids
we should not control. correct them
must be taught a lesson for sure. and when children are very
when they are small, sometimes they don't know what is right and what is wrong.
there is no understanding. so there you are
as a parent.
but by and large they should be given a discount
that he should follow his passion. your passion
understand. we are everything discipline
there should be no discipline.
otherwise the child becomes stifled.
you stop his growth. so me
it feels like i belong to three idiots
i personally believe in the philosophy. riotous
in. not in dangalwali. but riotous
i didn't have a choice. we are a real
was making a story. mahavir phogat jo jo
whatever relation he has had, mahavir ji.
we are the same with geeta and bagita.
had to show. we have some and i have my own theory.
i can put it. i play the character of mahavir
i am doing it. so i have to be mahavir. we
and in that also we show that his
that was the dream behind it, surely it was my own.
he wants to fulfill his children's dreams.
through. what is not right ends what is right
doesn't happen. i definitely agree with this
i am. but that's what happened, so we got that
had to show. another one is that
that's the level when you create champions.
like seena williams and her sister
what is her name williams venus williams
his father trained him since childhood.
told you that you would become a tennis star. he
he had madness since childhood.
now what happens to that when you
you push so hard and put so much pressure
yes, at such a young age two things can happen.
are. either the baby will crack crumbell
it will break
will he go or will he become steely like iron.
meaning, take as much pressure as you are putting.
the pressure is on and is getting stronger.
one of two things happens. so champion
this is how the finals are made. as if we
have williams become sisters or geeta and babita?
became. and those children who were troubled in the beginning
they were saying that father is doing a lot of atrocities.
is. bapu, you are harmful for health.
but then at one point they also realized
it happens that his madness has affected us too.
actually gave a whole life. complete us
has helped. and at that time
so a different time too
girls had too many things anyway
it was not loud. so that is the madness of mahavir ji.
that he said man i girls
will put him in wrestling. she with the boys
will fight. it's crazy to have such a unique vision.
it is in a way. so
ah yes so i think the champion by the way
are made. sometimes it's not like that every time
it is not. champions also come on their own.
i was watching a yuvraj singh thing.
yuvraj ji was also like that. yes
well, they also put pressure on yuvraj like this.
made bigger. do you you you you you you
if you want to make your child a sports star then this is how
to do? no no not like that. actually me
don't think it should be done like this. whatever we
what i showed in dangal is not my nature.
ok not at all. i think that
if your child is interested in any sport
if you want to encourage then the excitement is there.
you encourage him further. but your thinking
don't force it on him. i don't believe this
i am. but it was the same story in dangal. to us
that's what had to be done. so tell me that honestly
had to fulfill. often we are in character
the character we are playing is sometimes yours.
thinking and thinking of character are different
taking any one point.
but you have to follow the thinking of the character.
he is an actor. you don't put your thinking
can in that. you spoke about father, mother,
siblings. how were you how is yours
relationship with your siblings? actually
my relationship four, you said it, right? my
brother faisal, we are nikhat and farhat, we are four.
are. i think from childhood we have been
very close and we have been very
comfortable
and with each other ok interacting with each
others and we are very close nikhat farat faisal
and i all four of us is that something special
in you've you've thought of it means when i
i was in 12th and i was in college.
what do my friends around me do at my age?
so friend, you are not graduating
it's not so good today, this is when i
all this is not very normal 80 pre three
this was from idiots. yes yes, it means it was from the 80's.
i am doing it early before
in 85 and 83 when i started college
when i left, education was a very big
deal we and if you are not a graduate
your life would be over
and i was not afraid of him at all. me
i thought this was graduation, isn't this?
the certificate is nothing to me
it is not. actually i am starting rancho type
was from. this is rancho's thinking. us and the forest
of the big reasons that raju wanted me in the
the film was because of my thinking. that is
my belief as well. that's who you are. that
is why i am. you know i am completely angry
with the thought. i'm too young to even be
validate this theory. but i agree with that thought
that means some impractical decisions.
few correct decisions are made because they
the ones that come from instinct, not mine
have to do. you see when i did the tax
everyone around me said that this
don't know what madness is happening. cricket
no film has been released on it till date. cricket
forget about sports, has any film been released till date?
it is not. i don't know if a period film has been made.
has been. all bundled in it
and roaming around in dhoti. all that time
the films which were successful
was being shot in switzerland. abroad
there was shooting. dk ny and brands
are being worn.
when i did the taremi when i did the rangde
of basanti. rangde basanti was the fifth remake
of bhagat singh and azad. was the fifth remake.
meaning a period of one and a half year
in. one was sunny and bobby's nanny. one ajay
devgan came. another i think sonu sood
that came. i do not remember. many
movies were made on that topic. so we fifth
were making a remake. absolutely practical
it is not. what are you going to do now
yes? the stars are on the ground, this riot, all this
i had impractical decisions. when we
i had rioted and i had become fat.
i remember when i was in the industry
used to meet from.
so generally we are very busy in our work.
we are so busy that we care about each other so much.
don't meet so frequently. either
whenever i met someone from the industry
so whenever he looked at me, i felt his
it was visible in the eyes. i mean i think he
man, he has become so fat. oh my god!
so went. aamir khan went. this is its last
it is a film. there will be no coming back from this. this man
because i was very fat. yes.
and i started laughing because i felt absolutely
i felt the shock on his face.
i thought, man, this is what i mean in my eyes.
was visible
so i have taken so many risky decisions but
i thought they were right, i thought mine
this is what i feel like doing, so this is what i have to do.
all my decisions have been impractical
actually i have taken them in madness and
lucky they have been proven right so i am big
i'm thankful that we got it right now
yes. this is i say this many times
i am in my team. the worst advice i got
have got is be practical.
i have a very deadly example of this.
the film was rangde basanti. there is a scene in it
when i cry while eating. vaida ji
there has been an attack. yes. lathi at india gate
has been charged. she is in hospital coma
is. and i come back with su. our
there is a packet of food in hand. we
people sit. everything was destroyed.
and i try to eat food and suddenly
i start getting those thoughts and i start talking
i start doing it and i cry. that scene
was. that scene was a very important scene for me.
for. it was very difficult because he was tall
the scene was and when i come i'm a
i am in a special mood and then let's talk
you start crying while doing it. we
so which
technical
we get supports that you glycerin
put it in, do this, i don't have all that.
i actually want to perform that single.
in the shot. yes. so i did a big rehearsal
ok in your mind. that how will i do
and i
absolutely amazing i thought. i
how will i do that scene? what happened that we
came a day earlier. we did a breakdown and
everything has been decided. rakesh mehra and i we
apna dop
were
vinod and everything was set. the next day we
were about to shoot the scene. the next day when i
when it came to shooting, the clothes were different. i said
i told the assistant these clothes
continuity is wrong. we he said sir
no, we are not shooting that scene.
are. doing the second one. i said
why? so he said no, that mehra and
call mehra. so mehra came. i said
yaar mehra scene is ready. shoot me and
i was absolutely ready emotionally. spilled glass
was absolutely ready.
he didn't say it, he was saying vinod.
that if we start with that then we
lighting shift will cause loss of one and a half day
in. so that's why we start from the second scene
are doing
are. ok me my my first step
there is an assistant in the industry
director. so
i used to do all this scheduling. hmm.
so when he told me, 1/2 day, i
i felt like the producer was calling me 1 1/2
the day will make a difference. as an actor that scene
should i do it today or after three days? me so
i should do better if i am professional
i am. so i said, okay, let's do it like that.
as you will. then another scene happened. three
we shot that scene a day later but that
it was time to miss. i can't do that scene
found. like i thought i would.
it became a diluted version. ok. now
wherever i go people say
is that scene yours? was that an amazing scene?
rangde basanti which you have cried while eating.
and i feel so angry. i think
i did that scene so badly. what i do
i wanted it to happen to them
no. so that irritates me a lot.
but did people like it? yes but that's better
could. the magic could not happen. no magic
if we are not able to do so then we will find it very difficult for me.
what lesson did i learn at that time?
should have said listen one and a half day passed
fuck this is the scene i want to do
that day is the day and today is the day i am the age
an assistant who is my instinct, isn't she?
i keep it aside, don't i?
creativity first
how to give if you are ready one thing at a time
only if you are emotionally ready to do it
do it. after two days it will be yours in two days
will do. so now i make that a practical decision
but i am very repentant. till today till today
i took that practical decision and i am very
i have repented. we are impractical.
i am right. i tried
to become practical. that is not right. no
see, every moment is true. we
and what is true in that moment
you should respect him. not you but him
don't be practical. the truth of that moment
you accept it and follow it.
or that's what i feel. so whatever
no matter how impractical it may seem to you
at that time. follow your instinct. we your
it's a mother's instinct. or
very strong she is following her
instinct she is not following
logic she's not following data she's following
instinct and she's never gone wrong
think about it, it is the truth of a moment which
you should respect the one who
what is your overall impracticality right now?
until you described yourself as
that's the reason everyone is top in the industry
three khans speak and you're one of them
that this is some other reason. what's special in
u? so many actually one so i you
let me tell you something. the thing that hurts me
this is what people say shahrukh, salman and my name
let's take. we take the names of all three.
it's a good thing. this is not wrong. but
i feel bad because together with us
ajay devgan has also lasted the same number of years. akshay
this too lasted for the same number of years. hrithik also same age
let's go. there have been a host of all of us.
this generation of hours we who have you know
come in late 80's that's actually generation only
salman shahrukh and i, not me, many of us
people who have been working for 30 to 35 years
which is not normal by the way and
everyone gave big hits. everyone gave big hits.
and everything is very successful
if yes, then i want to correct this.
am but why do you think than this that
the names of all three of you come up more because
maybe our films will get higher numbers
have we broken a record or
has done more business than any other film
so between shahrukh and salman and me me
there has always been a competition as to who is ahead
will come out
but this is not a competition for me, man!
people are working which reaches people's heart.
is reaching. reach our hearts
that we them
tickling their emotions. them
we're making you feel something different
are. what competition is there in that? when i
had i seen shahrukh's work, i would have liked it.
is. i laugh too. i cry too.
what should i complain about now? ok then work
he is doing it friend. also about salman
i speak now. sanjay dutt when i
see munna bhai, i was so impressed.
what a good job you have done sanju
ne.
so i am interested in good work. that
not interested in who is doing it
me. but what's special in you? what do you
think? see my qualities for you
let me tell. what i believe in
yes, i go after him. then i
i am not practical. stubborn
a passionate me
i will say that i will approach the work with complete honesty.
i do. work thief i don't get tired.
yes, i am not a workaholic. i don't get tired
i am. i don't leave anything to do
be better.
so this is my good quality i call myself
i love my own business
i see it very clearly. usually
people like their own work.
doesn't feel bad. but it's like this with me
it is not. when i look at my work,
i can see very objectively that
this is where i messed up. i'm a very
good self-critic. i'm very real. i
don't fool yourself. thats
a great skill. yes, i speak the truth
yes brother, i faltered here brother. from me
this did not happen. i could not lift this weight.
i have to bear this weight in the future, brother. so
back to the gym. do you understand? so i am
very real about my flaws. flounce end
i follow my passion and i give it all. i
i don't get tired. i am not even nervous.
so these are my good qualities. what now
my time was right, fate was right that she
read things right. all together at the right time
bind ho ke bandh. otherwise this is what we are talking about today
let's discuss what a big failure my friend is.
is man. not a single thing worked
no. that's my way of working. i
so i am working like that. hmm. yours
was talking and you're talking khan. all
do you guys compete internally? friendship is coming.
no lager. i don't think any longer. no no
friendship like outside i don't know world
give whatever. actually at one time we
used to come yes i think on what whom
who will be more successful in this?
man wants the most
most people are successful
liking the work and these good things
they are from my understanding and towards me.
i have never believed in negativity
i didn't do it, that means i didn't go there.
i am not that negative.
the thing is competition from my side and my
i have always been healthy in my understanding. we that i
i see that man he made such a good film
of. you have done such a good job. me too
have to do good. i get inspired
and from people's work. but due to their success
i don't feel sad. from their success
i would have been happy
is. so for me it was never that kind of competition.
has been. and now we've been together 35 years
we are the people. it's been 30 35 years. no
but only salman shahrukh and me
all the actors in the industry,
actresses have a long relationship with him
it's been there for all of us.
so i thought she was for me and actually she was mine.
never had it. i am with someone in these
in real sense i was never committing.
i was always competing with myself.
we
i didn't know that i was a bride with a heart.
should i do a big romantic film like le jayenge?
because i like that movie.
shahrukh has done an amazing job. a lot
i like it. enjoy seeing me too
comes. so i'm flirting with him a little
i am. but you said used to compete in 90s.
a little bit, i think enough kya hota kiss kiss
do they compete? competition meaning
what? i guess every one wanted to be
slightly ahead than the others. and what wood
you do to make sure that you're ahead. nothing
i'd just try and do good work.
ok. i'd just try and do good work.
so it's more that i'm in my zone
terribly well done. i'm always by myself
i have been competing. that the last one i
i need to go 10 steps further than what has worked
is. i have to learn from past work and i
have to move forward. in 90s only now you me
shahrukh was telling the story outside
khan gave you the laptop. yes shahrukh in
middle of competition only governs you
otherwise see we are the people according to me
as many as this is our generation, take ajay
akshay all of us sanju you all of us.
i think there's a lot of warmth and respect
that we have for each other. we and one healthy
there is competition also. every man wants that
do better.
a but when we were on the show shahrukh and i in 96
i was telling you that i am very technologically advanced.
he is handicapped. i am handicapped. me
digital things and all this latest
things: i'm not a digital guy at all. i
i am such an analog guy.
so like people hold meetings on zoom
i don't understand meetings on zoom.
how does it happen? until we face each other
i don't understand the meeting by sitting in front.
doesn't come. so in 96 i remember we
shahrukh and i went to the show and after the show
shahrukh said, 'yaar main latest'
buying a laptop. which one do you have?
i said i don't have any.
laptop. i haven't used it yet
is. what are you talking about? not using laptop
did it. this is a very important thing. so
yes, yes, then he said, "dude, i can take whatever i want."
i am here for you, i take the same so that
you should also start now, you should get tech savvy.
yes, it's okay, whatever you take for yourself is mine.
to get it, he did a lot of research.
was there any model of toshba at that time?
don't know which number was the latest one
and he tried very hard to convince me
that it has this and so and so, that and that of dham, i like it.
don't convince me like i was trying to convince you.
i don't know which one you'll take anyway.
he loved her very much
bought a computer and some things on it too
uploaded. they say upload, right? yes
installed yes sorry installed an office
and excel and all that, i don't know at that time.
what all used to happen?
you organize your entire calendar.
could. this is my calendar here
is. i never did this. so anyway
he did it very lovingly and he
i got a brand new laptop with all its components.
take the papers and a nice case of it too
had given. it's about 96. and we came back
india 4 years passed and then one of my
was the manager. he told me sir give me a
need to buy a laptop
is for work. but i noticed
one of your laptops remains lying there. you him
don't use. can i use it
can i? so i said which laptop?
i had forgotten that i had a laptop.
he said that toshiba laptop is a dr
lying in. yes. show it like this. so he
showed. i said, hey, this is shahrukh
took it for me. man, i have used it till date
didn't do it at all. four years had passed. ever
didn't even open it. no i didn't turn it on
was. didn't turn it on. first time on
nah. yes.
so i said i use it and i said yes
yes, use it friend, i don't use it anyway
i am doing it. you won't believe that
the laptop did not turn on because it was four years old.
don't know what happened to it while lying there.
it didn't turn on for four years.
then it didn't turn on. yes talk money
a little bit above. yes. which such point would be
where are you like that money is enough now
went. money doesn't matter. actually
i was like this from the beginning. me in money
the interest was not there from the beginning.
and i won't be able to give any reason for this
because i was not my nature. so when
when i started my work, i
there is more focus on creativity. day
from day one till today if from day one till today
you will ask me what you have at the moment
i can't answer how much money is it?
will get.
and if you ask me where my money
i have no idea if you are invested.
is. and right now i'm walking in loss that
i also know that i am making profit.
it is not. they don't have any idea. that mine
there is a guy whose name is vimal pareek. we
she is my step mother. step mother
it doesn't happen. she is a mother because she is very
he cares about me but he is a stepmother.
tortures a lot.
and he has been with me since the beginning of my career.
is. he is my chartered accountant. ok.
yes. so he takes care of all the money. the same
manages. he is the one who manages. me
don't even know what he does with the money
with. if vimal meets me today
if you want to make a pauper, you can do it in a second.
will take it and i won't even be able to stop him.
i trust him 100% and he looks after you
no all that does not happen to me and no
if i am interested then old relationships
end or separate after that
at what point emotionally are you ready and you
no that now i can move on to the next relationship
how do you decide that he has no timing
it doesn't mean anything and i
i never even thought about it
the relationship ends when
that ended a long time ago. we
actually the relationship has changed or one of the
changes have come and you and your partner
later we realize that we
actually came a long way. in this thing
already a shift has come. why did i
asked because i saw your clip.
yes. which one? there was a clip where you
i had said that i will not marry now.
yes because i think i'm 59 now
so correct me not. i felt like this
was. yes. so what changed today?
at the last time? gauri i found her.
because at that time i felt that now i
i have also become old. now at this age
where will i find someone? who else, well,
by then my therapy had also started. so
i understood that man actually
i want to make myself healthy. we and
i love myself first
do it. self love and self respect and
that's what i started paying attention to.
did it.
and at that time i felt that i
i also used to say to him that my friends are very deep.
there have been relationships. with a reena, a kiran
and we are still very close today. even today
we are friends. still very much in our hearts
we respect each other
for. now i don't think i need anyone else
i will meet someone with whom i will form such a bond.
a bond will be formed. i don't think so. 58 of 59
i am done. where am i now who is me
will get it. so this thought in my mind no no
there'll be a lot of people's interest in three
years back i had never seen anyone like this before.
so that by mistake is actually gauri and i
met and we connected and we
one friendship grew, one love grew and respect increased.
when it grew, it happened, i never planned it.
rather i thought that it's okay for me now
i have my children, my mother and siblings nearby.
i have such close relationships. me a
no partner needed. actually me
no need. because the rest of my relationships
so healthy. kiran reena and i even today
let's work together at paani foundation
and every day we sit together
people talking
are. and we have a genuine warmth and love
for each other inside. as a family. i
think reena and i and kiran and i always
will remain family. maybe we are husband and wife
stay but we'll be family
always. he is an integral part of my family
is. you know is a part of my life. so
that will never change. butt felt like this to me
you are right. maybe 2 years ago
now i may not have any relationship which
be so deep. and by that i mean
i had also made a compromise that maybe now
this should not happen.
but then it happened. i was surprised yes.
but did you feel lonely at any point? no i
have to say no. i've got a very close
family end
a i have also been so close to cinema.
that has been my strongest relationship.
one of my strongest relationship is
bean with cinema. so that relationship means
till four years ago, that relationship was for me.
the most important thing was the relationship.
so you don't just need bandwidth, you just need space.
don't think there's something missing
what? you are going at such a speed, you
nothing seems to be missing. like kiran and
when i separated, we were so
still close
are. that we almost every two-three days
later we used to meet together. a me
remember, we were divorced. his
after that we are shooting for lal singh
were in ladakh. we follow the kargil sequence
shooting was going on and there was a village nearby
there was some celebration going on which
he invited us so he
made us dance also and kiran and i dance
when we were doing it, that video came somewhere.
it would be okay, many people on social media
commented that they are divorced
they are dancing together, looking very happy
i can't explain what this dizziness is.
let people know that my relationship is very deep.
is with her kiran and we are each other
we are very
family. oh, he gave me full lust
supported a lot. throughout the missing ladies
i supported him a lot
did it.
so i haven't had a very healthy relationship either.
felt lonely. i don't think i have. thats
what i'm answering. yes. and you said that
people misunderstand. people can't understand
i am the people. even line right now in the middle.
right? sometimes whatever you do. yes.
what do you think is one thing that is the biggest
is there a misunderstanding about aamir khan? oh,
i can't think of anything that's very big
which i think people understand me
not about this. people don't understand.
you feel completely understood? by and
large. it is also from the people around you.
no, that's always my problem with vimal.
it happens. vimal doesn't understand me.
what is? his mind is only about money
let's go. we feel that every one of my
steps should be practical and so that we
there should be more money income. he tells me
as long as you don't get aids. you movies
don't do. you say no to most things
you live. you are doing this wrong. so the one who
speaks to me
i guess he didn't understand me
because i do what i like
when satyamev was winning
so at that time i was doing about five ads.
was. i was a brand ambassador for five
products.
so i felt that when i was on television so much
i am coming with an important topic. in truth
in jayate we are different and very sensitive.
raising topics. so this is what's in my mind
it's a matter. that is not practical. butt i
sometimes practical angle is not working
i am. this thought arose in my mind that when
i am so deep and important about things
talking about. so not me
people should see my ad on tv. right now
so tell us about kanya prata
was. now is this someone selling a car or someone
is someone selling us a phone or a watch?
is. there is nothing wrong in this. we do that too
and the things i recommend to you
i am acting as a brand ambassador in those things.
i agree a lot. till then i endorse
i don't do anything until i'm sure
not that i will use it. so wrong
i am not doing anything. but that me
the feeling was not right.
i thought this show was very
is important. it doesn't have all this
should. must be clean. so i told vimal
told yaar, i have five endorsements
he wants to terminate me. to shut me down
are. so he got very angry. scolded a lot
he to me. said friend you are doing like this
u
no, your loss will be huge.
i also suffered a huge loss. but
i was firm and i
said sorry to all five clients. i have
said friend, you have not done any mistake. like this
there has been no dispute. the work i'm doing
i am in it, it suits me emotionally
it's not happening. i won't be able to do it. so you
i'm sorry but you terminate. so
he also understood. he terminated.
they also understood that i was giving them their
i have no feelings against him. i am someone
and i am doing it for a reason. but vimal is very angry
had gone. so good people often think
that i never won in truth
i read. aamir khan in satya mein jayate
earned a lot. actually i did a lot of my
i have lost a lot of truth
money wise if you compare with us
if i do then i have suffered a terrible loss but value
and but which not no but which i which
what i have learned is priceless
i have come closer to my country
the relationship i have with the people of my country
i joined in every home with
i am here and i feel fulfilled by the passion of the people.
kind of understood. how big is our country
is. what things are happening in it?
how are people living? what about them
are you having problems? what are their dreams
are? from what i understand these four
over the years when i watched three seasons of satyamesh
have done. what i have learned
i think he is precious to me
from. i made so many relationships with people.
had the opportunity to meet so many amazing people
is. so many amazing people shared their emotional personal
shared with me about life
that's a big thing on a public platform.
it happens. so i felt
that's too much for me, that's too much for me, that's too much for me, that's too much for me, that's too much for me, that's too much for me
there seems to be benefit in this. but like vimal
man sees loss that you have done these 4
so much money was lost in a year. so many
you have suffered a loss of rs 100 crore. you have
meaning i got to learn a lot of things. if you
have to pin point one brutal truth that you
what you have learned in this time in your life
what is it that i be young aamir khan
will laugh about what you're learning today
in. that life doesn't work like this.
actually i think the biggest thing i
i have found that in victory in truth
sensitized
i am. about a lot of things
i have been sensitized. regarding our country,
of the people of our country
lifestyle
i have been sensitized about it and
i have understood a lot
things. the biggest sadness that has happened to me is you
those who were asking when
during research we came across many
things came that we understood that
brother, how can a human being do this? they
with another human being so blindly cruel
how can one behave? how can you be so
cruel? you
so much is so wrong with another person
how can you do this? at that time when your
such things come up in research which
they are very scary and they hurt you a lot.
gives. you don't understand that
man, how can a human being be so cruel?
that
the realization was huge for me. one
the greatest lesson i learned was the truth.
during the victory, she said that man, we have to
we have to move forward holding each other's hands. we
there is no one else with you and me
would have happened. we are one
are. there is no one else.
we are one and the same. and this one advaita advaita
is the philosophy of. advaita philosophy you know
non duality everything is one.
the whole universe is one is something i
actually i believe in now now i believe
everything is one, we just can't see it
our vision is not that which can understand this
but our mind cannot understand this
but we are all actually connected by wires
and we are one and the same
are. so he helped me a lot in the whole process.
got to learn something about how human nature
work gets done. how we are the best among us
we can do even cruel things and
only we can do good things. either
it is important that when you talk to a person
if you meet him, feel his goodness.
to evil. you can either ignore evil or
take or make him feel in such a way that
he didn't even feel bad. like when we
it was a very difficult show to do in satya.
because we cover very sensitive topics
were picking up. and when our first
the discussion took place: we were seven people of the core team.
in the core team and as things come out
obviously you were involved in research.
even if you get angry, everyone in the team speaks up.
we were like, friend, we will show it like this.
if you say it openly then you will get very angry.
there was a lot of anger in the group and it was natural
that us
so i stopped him at that time i said friend
we are just starting the show
so before we take a step forward.
i have a very important question to ask. we this
why are you doing the show? and this show is yours
what is primary emotion? the first emotion
what is the reason you are doing this show?
is it? if he is angry then your show is a way
of
will happen. i'm not doing this out of anger
show. this show came from my mind and i
i want to tell you that i
i am not doing this in anger. me with love
i am doing it. me from my country my people
very genuine love from
is. and when i see that my friend
lives can be better than this. we some
can't understand things
stay. so i am doing it with love. i
i am not doing this show out of anger. so my
the primary emotion is love.
and all of us need to be tuned into that
primary emotion. because if i get angry
if i'm doing it, my whole show will be different.
will go. i am doing this show with love. so
if i say anything, i say it.
i am also included in that. brother i am someone above
i am not sitting. i too share that problem
i am. i am also involved in that issue. one
let me give you examples. we did dvari's
talked about on our shoe.
now you imagine that 90% of india is here
given scared and taken scared and both rough and tough
i am speaking wrong. there is a large number
the one who still fears in india
gives in some form and the other and the other
the tv on which they are watching the show
maybe 90% of that also comes in dowry.
i have come to dwari, now you think that i
i am telling the public to do 90% of whatever they want.
i am saying this is not right
this is wrong if i speak in anger now
what will happen, i am also a part of it
i am also part of that problem. me
that's seeing from perspective and speaking with love.
do you know that your people are friends somewhere?
sometimes make mistakes. a little on this
if you pay attention, you will realize that
man this is not right
is. when we question a girl's life
you speak lovingly to the person in front of you.
what is your intention? what are you talking about
yes? you speak to humiliate me
are you staying? no i don't want to humiliate
i am speaking. i am wishing that we move forward
grow up. this country should move forward in society.
i wish we were better
go. i am coming with love
i am. so that thing will reflect in your work.
in. and that guy who is watching your show
it will touch his heart. you him
can't fool. public very sharp
it happens. you can't fool him.
he will understand what his intention is. one second
the man understands. so that's a lot
it was an important discussion for us.
what emotion are you doing the show with? off
why did you do it then? people often meet me
they say why did you stop the show?
actually we started paani foundation.
didn't stop the show. we have water foundation
started because we felt it was very
this is a very important work and it needs to be done at the grassroots level.
there is a huge impact so we felt like water
we have to join together and in maharashtra
we have to because we all maharashtra
is. i mean truth and i we
are maharashtrians. so we thought we
have to work in your state in the beginning and
we have to work only with water. so
it's been 9 years since 2016, maybe 2025
what year is it now? 25
yes, it has been 8-9 years since we worked in water.
are doing and which was our entire team
the full team of satyamev jayati has shifted
we are the same team when we go into the water.
working in the foundation because we
working only in maharashtra
it is limited for maharashtra and the rest of the country
don't know where we are working
so in truth see this, the whole team shifted
there is water in the found foundation and we feel
maybe this is a very important task
more we bring a change at the grassroots level
trying to
and the same team is now doing two jobs.
only one team will be able to win. yes, either we do that.
can or can do this and we feel
this is a very important task but you said that
you learned that there is a good inside every human being.
it happens, it happens bad, it happens positive.
is negative
tell me one positive and one negative
what you want your children to have in you
to learn or not to learn.
what you don't want your kids to know
like a trait of yours that you want
may your children never learn from you.
we are not visible from above. me
it seems my children are learning a lot from me.
want
them. there is no such negative special trait
is inside me. no i don't think so
i don't have any negative traits in particular. u
want them to be obsessed as well.
look friend, man lives only by passion.
man lives only in passion. and every man's
passion is also different. but every man
is obsessive. you won't tell me friend
this man is not very normal or obsessive.
it is wrong. every man is obsessed with it
is.
you can fulfill your passion
how much discount you give is up to you. we
a i don't think there's anything special you want them to do
if it gets closed just like that, make a guard rail.
no no yes yes okay okay you have one
pointed out, yes, you are right, friend.
a man should not be so judgmental and
it shouldn't be so hard, so hard
it should not be about emotions
i produced a documentary
whose name was rubaa roshni i don't know
have you seen it or not? you will definitely see it.
send you the link we it was a
document entry on
forgiveness. so i would like my children
to be forgiving. unlike you. unlike me.
now i'm forgiving. now or me very
it took time to reach here. but sorry
it is a big thing to do. when you sincerely
you forgive someone. who hurt you
has hurt, hurt, harm
has delivered. but you forgive him with all your heart
if you do, then you will free yourself too.
you give and free that guy too
that brother, i have nothing in my heart for you
for. you stay happy. hmm.
so forgiveness in the real sense, the ability to
forgive, is one of the strongest
qualities i feel a person can have. and one
mind set that you want them to have it
from you. out of all the qualities that you
have. one you want that this is me generations
i want my child to have it too,
be with my children's children too.
my ability to be honest with
myself. i don't fool myself
i make it. i'd like my children too
have that quality. b real. yourself
don't be fooled.
otherwise we
often live in their own thoughts. myself
give a dollop to. delusion yourself
let's dilute that yes this is right that
okay. this is how it is going on. this is correct. b
be real about yourself and be caring too
others. we must be caring to others. and
my children are also very caring. payara too
very caring, junaid is also very caring
hai and azad too, all three are very caring
there are children. always take care of others
and i think they're good kids you know one
thing i want appreciate
you're the first person. yes
from in my life which is far ahead, very big
we are very successful on the pedestal
right
and mostly all the bollywood stars come
nobody happens they get late right mostly
yes yes sometimes it gets delayed sometimes it gets delayed
is getting late i think someone xy
there is bombay traffic from g reason i don't know
it's a thing it's a joke in the office also
that the actor is always late. the actor is always late.
the actor will come late. hey friend, i too will come today.
it's too much if you come late. right?
and they always come and say that we are on time.
only happen. ok? oh we let whatever
that thing
you called instantly and a bullet
story not given. you told me i love
honesty. no one has given me such honesty
never said that friend, i woke up late.
yes. that yes i am late. i have never
unappreciated internally. yes yes yes. something
more than this. i don't know why but it's very
it was a normal thing, maybe anyone is like this now.
people can be like that in a way that i
so why should i say that i am a star?
it's late, it's late, what difference does it make?
there may be one or not, friend, i will tell you.
and i will make an excuse that i am going to work.
gaya in traffic, mostly people say this
there was traffic, there was an emergency at work.
some work is done at home, whatever you are doing
honest that yes brother let's get up that's a pinnacle
for me i love it and not when i lie down
i woke up and was in a hurry to get ready.
then i realized whether i was going to be or not.
if i can't reach by 12:00, it's 45:00.
i think i called and i said that man
i am late, i am really sorry and you
your excuse was honesty to me that
isn't it appreciated that you're getting late and
you're telling yes yes yes it's the yes
i didn't make any special excuse, excuse means yes
i stated the fact exactly.
very few people remember my story.
i sleep very deeply.
it's always been there. that's so good. and i am a
sometimes i fall asleep. very difficult to wake me up
it happens. even today my boy is with me
santosh, his biggest work is that
wake me up in the morning. because if he gives me time
i don't pick it up and then i lie down. it happens. now if i don't get up, so will he.
it hurts. that poor guy sir sir sir
gets tired. so this is not from now on 15 20
that's my bedside table for years
it happens on the spray we use in makeup.
we spray water, it stays there
on. he picks it up. he sprays
on my face. when emergency means when not to wake up
i have been here for 510 minutes, so my
sprays. don't wake up even from alarm.
no. so what? i was doing a movie
tradition. now we start shooting for tradition
it was the first time and i was working with yash ji for the first time.
was doing. we are the director of yash ji top.
i am talking about 9394
because the film came in 95, the tradition came
so from that
first yash ji asked me for a photo session.
i have to do it aamir, come tomorrow at 11:00 am
we do photo session to get the look of the character.
if this rakesh goes and shoots rishta, i will go.
said yash ji, i will not come tomorrow at 11:00.
i will get it because it is my shooting that wins.
the same as alexander
so you oh, it was before that. well when
also time time not relevant early 90s you
understand, i said i will not come at 11:00.
i will get it because i have a shooting which is at 9:00
starts at o'clock. i am the director
i can request for half an hour
come late
but i can't wait any longer than that
i. so let's do one thing. to us
need three-four hours. so we start at 7:00
let's do it. so 7:00 to 9 7 to 10 we do
will take. then i reached the shooting by 11:00
i will go. i requested mansoor
told him that i was coming 2 hours late. he
he also said yes, ok, i will do some more work in 2 hours.
i will do it. so it was decided that at 7:00
i will do yash ji's photo session first thing in the morning.
from there to film city
i will reach. now at 11:30 in the morning i
got up. at 11:30 i
got up. and when i woke up i
if you look at the time
11:30 so i got so upset.
i scolded reena. at that time my
he was a boy and got scolded. i said you guys
what are you doing, friend? it's yash ji's first day
and i have kept the 7:00 o'clock shift.
and yash ji had also said. like so soon
morning morning. i said no no sir i am coming
i will go, i will come back. that little stammer
used to do yash.
so i said man, it feels so bad.
i have not worked in my life. first time i
means late and it's 11:00. okay like this
not if you don't arrive at 7:00, like
i called. phone nothing 11:30
nothing is happening now. i just woke up
empty. felt so angry. i said do amazing
you guys are not living on such a day.
picked me up. so reena said shut up. so
said we had picked you up. we are like this again
you said shooting was cancelled.
and you fell asleep again. so i said
when did i say the shooting is cancelled? so
he said, you said mansoor's shooting
and yash ji's photo session is also canceled
is cancelled. then go, you said it was cancelled.
we agreed that it's okay, let us sleep and then when
today's work has been cancelled.
that day i realized that in my sleep i
i also lie. i crave for gold so much
it's more about what he is at that time? no
no, it got cancelled. got canceled
after doing this i went to sleep again.
now the problem was that it was unconscious, i remember it.
it is not. when did i say, friend?
are you guys saying anything? no friend
you said it has now been cancelled. so i said
then i had to admit that man, this is strange.
i lied in my sleep. now problem
it was that i had to call yash ji now.
so i called yash ji
did. so sister, you didn't come.
so it's not like that, yash ji, i'm very sorry.
want and you will also think what i
speaking but i'm so embarrassed
i couldn't get up just 10 minutes ago
woke up
i am there, yash ji's silence came on the phone.
i thought he was being rude to me.
this means that someone should give a proper excuse.
i felt bad, something had happened
what are you saying? i just woke up.
no and i again explained to him that yash ji
actually that is my problem in life.
doesn't wake up
okay yash ji is listening to everything. i am with them
working for the first time. ok this man
he is telling me that he cannot get up in the morning.
it would be better if i remove this from the film.
will happen. so all this means that i am so awkward.
when i went, i told yash ji i am so
sorry yash ji. i have forgiven you a lot. but
the truth is that i got up. don't get up
found. i didn't even get up. i had a question
because you said that you are very
you remain involved with the successes and losses.
you won't know what's going on. all this right?
does your movie do well or sucks
he is more affected by junaid's
does the movie do well or does it suck?
[laughter]
oh, you asked this very fresh question because it
there is fresh emotion
i always felt that my friend
there is so much attachment with work, so much madness.
that's what's up with that job
success is whether people liked it or not.
he came, this is very important for me. we
that's probably not a thing. we but when
when junaid entered the industry, i
realized that actually a father's
there is emotion and he overtakes.
is. so any day today's date i am with junaid
i am more attached and worried about work.
i am attached to him that he should be successful.
should.
his success and his emotions fate success. its
the emotion. i want him to be happy with
the work is done. i want him to get the due
of what he is doing. as a father that's a
very strong emotion. so i have to say
be it junaid, ira or kal azad
when it works. so i think i'll be more
concern about their success and failure
their life than mine.
my
children's life and end and future which is
my children's future and their life
is more important to me than
that i realized this thing about you
flop will work but their flop yes their
the flop didn't work for me like it did now.
i didn't like the movie but i liked it.
i felt that zuid also did a good job.
had done
and the role and character that junaid has played.
he was not her type at all.
he is like this in real life. exactly like that
it is not. it doesn't exist.
so junaid has a very amazing quality
that he becomes the character
is. the character you see in the movie
you think it's him. and its me
lal singh had first time experience
in chadda. when lal singh chadda was being made
in the beginning i even started growing a beard.
had started. it had been six months. and
junaid
came to american academy after learning fresh theater
of dramatic arts. he spent two years
did the course. then a place for them one year
did it. so when he came back i thought
man, look at what he's learned. so advaita
i told him to do one thing, lal singh.
removed 810 scenes of chadda. you and me shoot
with junaid. like junaid is red. i
i am not. firstly, i will see that junaid's
how is the work? hum doosra tu ye movie
is he ready to direct or not?
i will also understand. test two things
will happen. you too will be tested, junaid
tests will also be done. so he took two weeks
took too much time
no. in two weeks he gave me a 20 minute
shot and showed 8-10 scenes of junaid
with. i was moved after seeing that. i thought father
hey, what has junaid done? and this
for the first time he came back from theater school.
he is doing something for the first time. so i
got confused. i felt this was father's love
or actually he did such a good job
is. i don't understand. why do
you think love did work for him? i think
that
he has a very negative blacklash that
came to the movie. i believe this because
she got trolled a lot in the movie nepotism.
nepotism is too far gone!
are
whereas junaid and i are not like this, i mean
junaid himself is like this
is. you must know that nikhat is my sister.
does acting. since last four years
is acting. on kapil sharma's show
when we went, people saw it for the first time
them. well this is my sister these days
is acting. have you seen pathan?
the afghan woman in pathan, perhaps whom i
haven't seen the movie but i heard that
she ties a talisman to shahrukh and
it gives the title that from today you are pathan, we are
will be called. we that's my sister. we
so no one in the industry knew that
she is my sister. when nikhat was at the age of 50
and something decided that i should act
is. so she told me i'm thinking
i am interested. actually it was always like this
but then again i probably didn't.
now i think i can. ok. so
i said it's a good thing. i didn't know that
how will she act? so he said what should i do?
should i do? i said you are casting directors
go to the office and give the screen test.
if he likes it then he will roll you
will give. so she used to go to all the
casting directors and ask for roles
and do the screen test. she doesn't speak anywhere
it was said that i am aamir's sister. nowhere.
really? and neither did i tell anyone that
she is my sister. so whatever work he has done till date
got it on my own strength. that's kapil
go to the show that was held a few months ago
people came to know that she is my sister. then
till no one knew that she was mine
sister.
so nepotism or someone close to you
it is not possible for me to give a role to.
but why not? because no, not because of the movie
with you not with injustice but atleast
by connecting them with the right people and at the right place
can deliver. no they will find theirs
place. that's right, you are the way of casting daughter.
man, any normal person would go after aamir khan?
there is no brother or sister, there is no son. so that
so he would go to the casting director and say
hey friend, this is my name. you give me some work
he told you, okay, do this scene and show it. this
casting of the film is going on. this is the scene
read it and show it. it will be good for him
will get a scene. no it won't be good
will get it.
there will be some advantage for the son, right?
to the athletes go to the right offices. i am
sure.
up till now i haven't interfered in
junedas career and no do i want to? will
you at any point? never
do you tell him whether you should take it or not?
that's what should be done with such a script. no.
look i see you
let me tell you that i helped faisal a lot.
had tried. when he started acting
took steps. unfortunately not the first film
she left
intoxicated, i was very worried and i
tried hard to help her career
can support. i also did a film for him
whose name was fair
but i tried my best to
let me help him. but me at that time
realized
that this is a field in which no one
don't help
could. i just pray to god
i can say that please give my success to him.
i can't do anything beyond this.
you actually can't do anything. so i
i had personally tried and failed. and
i had understood that this is a line that you
you bring your destiny. you take your hard work
you are coming. you make your own path. and
that is the right way for us to learn and move forward.
to grow
of. so rather i gave junaid a little
was discharged. when he told me for the first time
said that i have to act and i
have to learn acting. i go to theater school
i want. why?
i told him that man
junaid, till date you have never seen such a wonderful child.
was that. well, i was also very sad. hmm.
so i said friend, did you do something like this?
nothing has been shown yet that makes me feel that
you have acting qualities. me too
i don't know what kind of work you do
will do. so he said yes i understand
but i have to learn. so i said yes
okay. whatever you want to learn, we support you.
will do. your parents fully support you
will do. whatever craft you want to learn
if you want to go into profession, we will help you in that.
will educate.
but after that you
one's own place one's own place one's own place
have to make. this is what i told her at my first meeting
i said and i also told him that when
you can do a 3 year or two year acting course.
come back and when i finish your job
i will see. if i feel that no friend you
if i don't have the strength, i will tell you immediately.
junaid, be ready to hear this. if
i thought your work was not good so i
will i tell you frankly or not?
you are not doing it. i won't be able to lie.
neither we nor i work for you
will give. if i don't like your work
i won't even give you work. in life
there is no chance that i will give you work.
i can't do it. i wrong with my work
can't do it. i will definitely do it
no. so only said yes papa i know that. me
and i have no misgivings about it.
about you not gonna help me
yes. i said, i said, are you clear? hee
said yes i am clear. i am pretty.
learn whatever you want to learn. i said one
disadvantage is going to be special for you.
is. you will be compared with me. we who
normal will not happen to anyone. that's yours
it will be good to be compared with aamir khan.
they will definitely do it.
so this is a big disadvantage for you.
for.
because people will think in their mind that
if he is aamir's son then i don't know what he will do.
now you have to match their imagination
is. so that's a disadvantage. so i sad
will deal with
that. so hee is a very strong kid and i
have seen him grow. i think this is me
seems like he is a very good actor.
he has the potential of a very good actor.
is. i think so. that mold in character
goes. the one thing i wanted to know
from about you
you talk a lot about your body.
you do transformation to become a character
for.
many like few people do it. so much
transformation. so when you have such a body
you do transformation and you become fat.
then became thin. 9% body fat is all this
gone. right? hmm, what kind of point was that?
which was the scariest?
because your body is so unhealthy
updating frequently right which was the
toughest health scar on your body during
if transformation was not tough then what is tough?
what do you think is the toughest in this
that i became so fat then i
i have become thin, what do you think most about this?
does it take a lot of discipline?
when i increased my weight it was 97 kgs.
my body fat was more than 38% and then when
that shooting was completed and
i had to lose weight and the young portion
the shooting of the character was still pending.
so in those five months i lost weight.
to bring about changes in the body
i was very strict in those 5 months
had to be very strict which was difficult
it is difficult, it is challenging.
there is fun in the challenge and i
my family scolded me a lot that you
you are playing with your body. ray
was very upset. mom is very upset
she asked what is happening? your health
will be affected. you just don't realize
are you staying? you will know later. butt that
man does not listen on time. you drunk
are happening.
passion. there is passion. so i did it
gave me some physical
there was no reaction. so i think
touch food has gone well so far.
hua hai and do you do do-do three-three time
used to work out once in a while
pe jab main ghajini or me b do jab ghajini jab
if i did, i would overtrain a lot.
at that time it was not two times a day but three times.
at that time i used to study for 3 hours a day
used to work out once in a while
morning's
time and that's called over training what
do used to do you will laugh if i say
i will tell you
tell me, doing abs would be very boring for me.
and i used to get a lot of irritation about my abs.
i used to have abs to do it, man!
i thought about doing it, he was my trainer.
chintu
i told the truth to chintu, friend, one task
let's warm up with abs.
so two things will become two in one warm up also
it will be done and abs are gone abs are done
kill the frog kill the frog yes quickly
when i finished, he said, i am fine with abs.
let's start. so on the first day we made 200
did abs. by 200 i mean the 20-25
did crunches, did 20 202 leg races, hanging
did leg races. by mixing like this but without
stopping 200 reps i did off
abs. now what happened to the body?
gets adopted. so 200 abs for me
it became very easy. because you mean with in
a
month where i used to do 25 setups, now i
doing 50
i am. what i used to do without weights, i can now do
i am waiting.
so the warm up kept on increasing.
i did 200 and then one day i was in a mood.
when he came he made it 300. made it 400. then i
said i will do 500. so in a month or two
i had reached 1000. 1000 repetitions
yes 1000 repetitions within two months
off abs without different exercises
stopping and it's you to take me 55
i would have warmed up in minutes 55 minutes
now the abs are gone brother.
ok chintu and i thought we were very good
some are doing amazing.
i think he didn't realize this at that time.
i realized that they call it over.
training we
and i got better results if i over
if i didn't train, i would go into that madness.
i was the more you do the better
the more the better the better it is
do more you know we feel when you do
more of one thing you'll reach there faster
that's not necessary
so i would do my warm up 55 minutes early.
tha with abs after that i a typically do
used to do body parts during the day.
my workout used to last for one and a half hours, then it used to last for two and a half hours.
the hour is 55 minutes plus one and a half
after that i did cardio for an hour.
3 and half hours so 3 and half hours were
my workout and by the end of the workout
i used to be so exhausted that i used
to go up have a shower and fall a sleep and
during that time i was editing stories
the film i directed on the ground
its editing was going on so i
was doing body work for shooting of ghajini
wise but actual was my job at that time
i have done editing, i am very lazy and
i don't like working out at all.
i was doing it for the first time, so i did a
i had made a rule for myself that as long as my
i don't work out in the editing room.
my entry is not allowed
nice so if i work out at 8:00 in the morning
i am here and that chintu came and we sat down.
now i'm not in the mood, we and i
i'm making some excuses man
let's drink more coffee. i don't feel like it
don't do it today. if i don't do this today then today
i won't even be able to go editing. i made the rule
i am very happy about giving and editing.
i was excited to edit my friend.
is. editing has to be done. i have to go there.
i can't stop myself from that. butt eye
can't go until i work out. so a few days
so it's like i worked out till 12:00
didn't do it. and chintu is saying sir
take it. then you won't even be able to go editing.
and then finally i stood up irritated
i used to go and work out so that i could
can go to editing. so that way i
motivation was editing or motivation was
editing. so that's how i worked on for
ghajini we would say that that's not a way
scientific way of training. you should not do
over. it was over training. we me my
he has his books nearby. meaning in notebooks
i used to write my boy jo hai sachin
how many reps, which exercise, what weight?
how many reps did i complete? i kept the lock book.
is.
so just a few days ago i was looking at the lock book.
so shoulder shoulder there was a day when i
used to do only shoulder. hmm
32 34 35 reps a sorry 32 34 35
sets not raps 35 sets sets only
shoulder
and how many wraps in one set 8 10 8 10
12 8 10 12 used to go 12 10 8 12 10 8
but i you have to do 32 sometimes 35 sets off
one exercise of one body part of one
muscle different exercises
that's too much shoulder too small muscle you do
do you do you do you don't need you just need
maximum 12 ah you know
12 solid a sets is good for you to know
destroy the shoulder if does it well 32 sets
so there is a limit to over-training. i so
i used to overtrain at that time, even three
if you did, you would have hit 10 variations. i was b
so i overtrained too much.
in that. then when i rioted, i
better understanding came. you are more
scientific. i was more scientific. infarct
i was very scientific because i had to
lose weight and what was my problem 5
i just can't lose weight in months
was. i got a scalped from a fat man
had to look like a very muscular wrestler. so thick
how would you look like a wrestler? 5 to build muscle
the months are very short. in 5 months you
you won't be able to build that type of muscle. so mine
planning started 2 years ago. when
i said half, i worked out from there
start already i was coming out of dhoom 3
so my body was good. very well built
lace
fat. so i told nitish sir that sir
first we will do the part about obesity. so i
i become fat. so when i'm getting fat
i just want to eat and not get fat
was.
my training is becoming too heavy
was. i was you know i was overloading style
of training which means i was doing
first set six reps failing at six
reps. second set failing at four reps end
third set failing at two reps. that means i
was lifting very heavy. one two max two
after came can't do third rap. feeling at
to. so i was following that style. so
what happened that during that one and a half year
i was getting fat and he was getting fat.
i was actually building a lot of muscle inside.
he was not looking amazing because
you would think there was a layer of fat on it
this is a fat man. if you remove fat then it will be very
well built man. this is not an imagination
if i could do it, my workout was rigorous.
right through i was putting on beat | so which
it was the last 5 months in which my body
i just wanted to transform and cut the fat.
had to do it, the muscle was already there. otherwise possible
it's not like you can lose fat in 5 months
and increase muscle also. because you're doing
opposing things.
when you are putting muscle on calorie count
yes, you will eat more. when you're cutting
so you are consuming less calories. you're on
defeat calories. defeat calories in muscle
how will i make it? yes.
so this planning head to start much
earlier for me to deliver. that. that. deed
you ever take steroids?
no steroids i never averted
pay i'm too scared i'm too scared
i don't know what will happen there
yes your one of the clips i was watching
about smoking yes yes yes that you
quit smoking for some body
what was the transformation that happened both times?
have quit smoking as you were not able
to you were addicted and then for some
transformation you quit ya ya both the time
two three times have done it a its time
he was also there in ghajini's time time in dangal.
even at the time of dangal, i am
our joe was wrestling.
kripa shankar ji is a wrestling coach.
i was told on my first day that
the wrestler smokes, not on my mat.
comes
is. so i understood that with brother kripa ji
if you want to learn, you will have to quit smoking. so i came
had to quit smoking because he was allowed
a wrestler to come on his mat who was too
smoke. and how did you do that? many people
can't leave. nothing. when it had to be done
if it is, it has to be done. there is no choice
brother. the boss said leave or else i
i will not teach. so now you need a guru
this. yes. so you will have to leave this. and
it doesn't matter. yes. so when the need
arise, i'm very strict. dhoom dhoom
three. hmm. i was not smoking during
dhoom 3. because i had to have a gymnast
body of. i had a gymnast's body.
smoking is a very bad habit and
unfortunately, i am also forced by that habit.
i am. so right now i smoke a pipe but i
i am not happy with this and i will tell everyone.
this is one thing you should not do
should.
alcohol and cigarette or pipe smoking. these two
things a person should never try
should. try have it. you are doing very right
you. butt has become a trend now among young people
now. what they are they are not actually
choosing alcohol and or that's a way good
the thing actually growing audiences that are younger
the younger generation is very intelligent and
he is wise and understands us before us.
i didn't have that much knowledge at that time.
there was no internet today, you were talking about health.
conversation you understand so many things
she is getting around health on time
it was not true that we used to make all these mistakes.
if i had known all this then perhaps i too would have
we don't follow the path you know
it's a bad habit smoking. and two reasons
it is happening since. one is health conversation
it is increasing a lot. second is now joe wellness
i am very involved in hiring him
status is considered in society
in. so now that respect is more respect for him
it is more. that means you gym
you go, you do pilates, you go to a run club.
you go, do this or whatever sport
you play. that active lifestyle is
unappreciated. is appreciated. so thats
why more and and and and and and and
and and more people are getting away going
away from alcohol. that's a good thing.
that's a brilliant change. brilliant change
what was not there before? like i face this.
they used to look at me like this in the group that now you are my friend
what kind of a boring person doesn't have fun? yes
now it's not now it's not now it's not now
unappreciated that yes how do you do it even
i wish i was like that too
does changing it's changing sometimes like this
what happens in my mind that i should adapt?
if i am, i am, this is someone else's work.
am copying or not copying what
is what goes on in your hand that original
me in work vs adaptation or remake
i have no problem in remaking it.
i don't think my creativity has diminished.
we are at all because i am for myself
i am doing new work. someone else did this
the story has been made. now i give it my perspective
i am giving.
and this team is giving its perspective and we
we are putting our energy into it. sacrifice life
have been. he is totally unrelated to that team
the one who did that. we
people still do shakespeare. till today
the number one play right in the theater is shakespeare
shakespeare in every language of the world and till date
let's do it. and for that we are wow
shakespeare is doing it. why brother? is a remake
stop that. aptation. you play your
write it down. why are you doing shakespeare today?
till? it's been 400 years and we're still doing shakespeare.
are you staying
you. when we place shakespeare's
we praise each other man
shakespeare is doing it. that is also a remake
no brother. hmm the story has been written by someone else.
thousands of people have made it. now you will do it again.
will print again. this is wrong thinking
this. i'm doing shakespeare again.
i am putting my life into it
i am. so this is the discussion of remix, right?
this seems very wasteful to me and i
i don't even believe. when i do ghajini
i am talking about it, it has been made in tamil as ghajini.
murugadas has made ghajini in tamil. now
you are doing ghajini again.
no, but i am doing it from my perspective.
and for my audience i
put your energy into it and let it show to you.
i am staying.
so i think my work is different from that.
whatever he has made is good. not me
i am saying that it was not made well. but we
whatever he created, he had a different quality of his own.
she comes. if people like the remake so much
if you have a problem then stop that shakespeare.
no friend. shakespeare is the first
that's an old remake, brother.
whatever you are doing till date, thousands of
people are doing it. millions of people are doing it.
shakespeare happens every day around the world. and
we praise him see shakespeare
is doing. why? no double standards
if this is a lot of shakespeare, i will do it.
would wow and if i did a spanish movie
if you took the remake then why not?
are the spanish doing something wrong?
i like this your blood blood and ours
blood water do you understand what i am yes come
like the perspective it's all bullshit i
i would go watch a movie if you told me to.
that man, this film was made 25 years ago by ashok kumar.
had made it so i am saying good very
ok but what am i watching right now
this is this so i have no problem
being a creative person, i
it doesn't hurt if 10 people do it before me.
this is the same thing. it's a good thing. i them
will learn
brother. i will learn from what 10 people do and i will
i will try to put something of my own in it
so i had trouble at first in making the remake.
no pain today no pain today
is. after lal singh, many people
said that you are making a remake again. red
you were trolled a lot in singh that
you made a remake. made a remake.
but what is it? i'm a bit of a power type
man
i am. practical things i don't understand
would come. so let me tell you the story of when i saw champions joe
it is a spanish film. it is such a beautiful film.
i can tell you
i am. i felt like the movie i saw
watching part two of taare zameen par
i am. when i saw champions i thought
i will move these stars 10 steps ahead of the ground.
she was no longer a champion for me. he is mine
that's part two of taare zameen par.
in the same space i go 10 steps ahead and
i am saying something very big that we need to understand.
it is very important. to the people of india
it is very important to understand. now this of india
guys what is that spanish movie
will see? we eat indian food
nah. have you ever eaten continental food?
i could barely swallow it
is. want butt indian? consider yourself indian
want it brother. need pulses and rice. if two days
eat outside at least on the third day otherwise
so how many people will watch the spanish film?
will we have more fun in india or something?
they will get a chance to learn somewhere.
can't even be seen or
so i have a problem with all these things.
not at all. and when i got practical
it was advised that you are making a remake again.
so i said yes brother, now this story is mine.
has entered inside. until i make
i won't do anything else until she comes out.
can.
my view of the remake is not the same as that of others.
is of the people. i enjoy doing remakes
in. now i show you the same thing in a different way
i am telling. and maybe i
make me weak. i may be better than him
make it. that's a different thing. but make me
i am having fun. as a creative person
i don't care if it's before
thousands of people have done this thing. so
what happened? is it good? i my
learning from my ancestors. what's wrong with it
is it brother? yes. and stars released on the ground
where is it happening? the stars are released on the ground
has been in theatres. only in theaters and
nowhere. so what is this about youtube?
see a rumor wrote you saw ya ya i
it is being released in the media, read a lot
i have read different theories but
i have received different paper view proposals.
pass to release the film separately
proposals have come but i am in favor of all of them.
and i only care about one thing
i'm keeping it theatrical because i feel like it.
that the theatrical business that we have at this time
steps have been taken by someone else in the industry
will not blame. i blame myself
will do. the film industry took such steps like this
steps taken in the last 15-20 years that we
after calculating a lot, i thought which one?
do things that will make our business worse
go.
we made such thought policies after thinking carefully
so that our business becomes less and less and less and less
we are becoming and now we are four.
would have come on ott within six weeks
that's a complete loss of business.
gone because i'm telling you that man
this is a mug
you can take ₹ 10, if you don't take ₹ 8
after a week you went home and left me
why would you buy a mug worth ₹10
so this is very wrong in my opinion i am in business
i am not a man of. but my common sense
tells me how i can do one thing twice
sell you
brother? i don't know. if you know how then you do it
take it. i don't know. so there was a time when
ott used to come after 6 months.
now he is coming after a few weeks so i
doesn't suit. me from ott
there is no problem. ot is doing good work.
if any content i will create for ott
it will come directly on ott. i don't
mind as a viewer i also like ott
it seems because we have a lot of content
gets to see. any problem with ott
it is not. i have a problem with this system. you
coming to the theatre. then after a few weeks you
i don't understand that on ott. so
i am very clear that my film which
she will come only to the theatre.
theater
which many people think is theater
he is not going to be there after some 10 years.
some of us also made big statements
have given about it.
brother, i am a man of cinema and i
maybe i'm an idiot. may happen
i'm talking nonsense. but in that thing
this is my belief. my belief cinema and
is in the theatre. i will do the same.
although i have many different offers
for platforms. i told everyone very much
i have said no respectfully. i said
no, i will just come to the theatre. and theater
when this business is over then we will move ahead.
will think what to do. only theater
butts like missing ladies should go on ott
very good curry.
no i don't think so on ott
it was not spread so much in ott theaters.
it is not good that i want to go to ott.
thinking is vomit watch when missing ladies
when it was released, it would be on netflix first.
every person knows your poster.
watch your trailer watch your movie
that your movie will be on netflix for a few weeks
coming later. now what would be its effect?
yes, let me tell you. one of the missing ladies
salman shahrukh khan is not there. someone in it
it is not such a big item song. nor in that
there is action, there are no stunts in it, there is no
everything is there.
now when will i go to watch this movie?
i will go only if its word of mouth is very high
will be strong. that there is no star in it.
there is nothing obvious about it.
there is no bridge through which i can go.
but i've heard from 10 people that
it is an amazing film. must see must see
to you. just see
should. butt because i know it's something
she is going to come to my house after a week. so i
no matter how much praise i hear. no matter how much i
if i listen to the praise, i will say yes, yes, i am coming.
i will watch it and watch it excitedly
i. so there are a lot of people who
watched it excitedly on netflix. compliment
seen only after hearing. so which of the film
you could see power tha on netflix.
but if it doesn't come on netflix like
i am releasing the stars and the public
had you known that brother, she is coming only to the theater.
is missing ladies. either we go to the theater
will you see or won't you be able to see? we who
his business today is worth rs 1820 crores.
he has a business of rs. 100.
this is the difference.
so the stars are on the ground you're saying that the athlete
right now there is no conversation that that
will it be on youtube or netflix?
will be available on amazon. is there some conversation? all
well, people analyze things individually. right now
will come to the theater only. theater only in theater
will come. right now some people in the media and guests
if you are working then post your theories.
have been. so now i am telling you. this
my first interview actually. we are
through you people will know that only
coming to theaters on june 20 and elsewhere
she is not coming. so you just watch it in the theater
can't rest anywhere. and somewhere else
no. i have last two questions. yes, yes.
if aamir khan is making his last movie.
what do you want to be about?
look, i have a dream. we are my dream
what? dream that i am mahabharat
make it and i am starting work on it.
after its release nice 20th june i
i am starting to work on it so i think
that's a job, that's a project, that
maybe that feeling will come inside me after doing this
that brother, after this i probably won't do anything.
i can because that material is like that
it's so grand, it's amazing!
there's layered, there's emotion, there's scale, there's grandeur
it's a thing. every character has their own thing in it
whatever is in the world is available to you in mahabharata.
found. so when you ask me what's your
what could be the last? that's how i am
i hope i die with my shoes
on what ak angal ji says
i wanted to die while working.
so we all want that. but because you
if you're asking then there's only one thing i can do
i can imagine that after doing this maybe
i got that emotion inside me that now it's enough
i don't have to do anything after that. maybe don't know
nice. mahabharat wood b n exciting
project. right now i am the stars on the ground
am actually excited because of all
had an impact on the ground in my family.
ok. so that's why i am enough
i'm closely following that one so cool
hair style became fashionable even in culture
was. that was confession but i think first
time i saw my parents crying
be emotional in a movie or in my house
venerable things also happened. so that's why when
you say that you are 10 steps ahead of him.
next is the sequel. i'm excited and
i'm genuinely ya know it's a film which
really this movie makes you happy. letts
i'm waiting, that's how i feel. when you
you feel so happy when you watch a movie
it happens. it fills you with joy. we stars
i love you on the ground, we love everyone
made me cry a lot. we will laugh in this.
will touch you, make you laugh and a lot more
very important thing
we want to share with our audience
with. here's the last question. yes. how
can i do this better? what advice do you have for me?
you can give based on you spend for
hours? five hours with me now? and oh i
what should i do better? so that i become better in
my work. you with your guests first
see you? no. before doing the interview.
and is this a conscious decision? yes.
good. so from what i have observed we
we have been talking for three-four hours
are. what i have observed
you are very free flowing and you naturally
follow the conversation. may happen
the guest may have some questions in your mind.
about. but you can see him for a second
leave and you follow the conversation
you do it and you instinctively do it
you follow. we one
organic is a common natural flow
the conversation you do is amazing.
is quality. among very few people
there is quality. people have already asked their questions.
and sometimes they also decide the answer that
the answer should be this. so when you answer
they don't give those same questions three or four.
they ask in different ways until they get the answer.
not available. you don't do that.
you discount discounts and you want to be heard.
a lot of people who do interviews are
don't listen to the answer. doesn't listen at all.
after asking those empty questions, i don't know where.
let's go away. don't listen to the answer. you
you listen to the answer very carefully and you
take you forward. so actually what is in you
i have seen the qualities, they are all correct
saw the qualities
are.
there is only one thing i can suggest you.
can. and that too i am not sure.
like that's why i asked you now normally
like we are meeting for the first time
we, we, have never met before.
did not spend any time together
sometimes i have advantages that
the advantage is that you
about the person you are going to talk to
you don't know anything or you haven't met
you are talking about it for the first time.
have an advantage but sometimes others
there is also an advantage on the side that you
don't ask about the interview but a
if you find the guy then at least you will get it.
i understand that this guy is actually
what? so when you're actually in front of the mic
come to you then
there is more material, there is substance
ask that person about those things
for. because a little bit you
you have understood the human being. yah. so that's the
only thing i can suggest. which is also
not hard and fast because sometimes you
will want to know the guest. sometimes you were
rather not know the guest. but otherwise i think
you're doing really well. thank you. we are
doing really well. actually what i did
have had a lot of conversations like this
i don't know when the conversation took place. i do not remember. thank you so much. or came
really enjoyed the conversation because of you
flow naturally. and you listen.
actually we actually have a conversation
has been. only interview or question answer
it is not working. we are having a conversation
actually. so the quality is very good
few people can bring it. thank you. and your
does it come naturally or maybe
have you thought about it or have you just 4
if you have been doing it for years then you know you also
reached a level of
maturity but i found you really good thank you
you it means a lot that is coming from you
and now going forward i will do
experiment two-three times before meeting
because just when we took a break and
during the break we talked about two or three things and then
bond hamara extra strong yes like
i could sell because of the candidate we met
the talk was followed by was more free.
you can say this also. may be there is
advantage to it. but not me consciously
i meet. because i'm very curious
s a person. i don't want. you want that
curiosity to remain. i understand. so
there is a quality in that too. but i'm saying
meet the person only this much. to give you some
understanding. your curiosity should not be
seated. i will try. there is
experiment to be done. let's see what
works. there's a long way to go. like
when i used to triumph in truth
interviews
i used to call people and talk to them
so i met them a day before.
because i am very important with them
to connect, we used to meet for lunch.
if 10 guests are coming on my show then they
10 out of 10 used to sit with me for lunch and we
people used to meet each other for the first time and talk
used to be but i told them one thing in the beginning
he used to say at lunch that the topic of the show is
that will not be discussed. of course we discus
will not talk about the topic. i just
want to know more things about you.
there are more things to be known about you and me.
yes. we will discuss the topic tomorrow only. that us
will open today. but what happens to that
one gets connected. you you you know you
form a certain connect with the person. but you
have to be strict not to ask dosage
questions on the first then repeat
goes. then that fun goes away. the same
you asked the question yesterday and are asking the same question even today.
yes. it is not fun. so next time we
they will just grope him. little to man
don't go into empty topics. i will do
that's what i'd expect one
idea. yes. next time when we because
you are asking. actually you are so good
are doing. do you need any advice
no. no i like it when someone
if from someone i respect a lot
let me take some advice because there is always
something to. no i agree with i also keep
asking people what they feel about me
work. because an honest and candidate answer
you get to learn from it that
i didn't think. yes, what you said
i will do that experiment. love sounds good.
thank you so much sir. really enjoyed it man.
pleasure your having really enjoyed it. lovely
meeting. pleasure thank you. take care. high
nice. hello sir. pleasure meeting. pleasure
place. sorry i won't lead here. its
completely alright please. come on. will leave
best. thank you so much. hi thank you.
because i was just noticing so i
i thought that now the pause has come that i
because i want a
next means last which you left i usually
i don't have a prepared set. yes. so which
i am ahead of where you are leaving me.
i am continuing. correct. so now you
left one thing and like continue on this
i am there completely but that thing is complete.
okay shit shit.
what doesn't happen is that my mind is very busy.
moves fast. what sometimes when i
i want to talk about me
very good at speed and speed of my mind
there is a difference. it's going very fast, it's going very fast
going slow. then i collect that thing
by then those 8-10 people will all wait.
wondering what he is going to say? stuck
i am going. actually. thank you so much
to watch till the end of the episode. now you have three
things have to be done. number one right now
subscribe to the channel because
the more you subscribe, the more valuable you are.
we will be able to bring better guests for you.
number two right now in the comments tell me why this
what did you learn from the episode and
who is the next guest you want?
whom we call here and from them we
speak insightfully so that you can become a better
can become a human being. end number three this episode
must share with one person
because one conversation is enough
to change your entire life. i will see
you keep figuring until next time
out.
[music]