the following episode will shed light on
the recent history of the indiapakistan
conflict. the intention is to educate
global viewers from both
perspectives. we've recorded this in
india. so of course it will be the india
perspective that you'll get through this
podcast. but we've tried speaking on
behalf of pakistani audiences as well.
we've tried speaking on behalf of the
pakistani citizens and their
perspectives on operation sindur. i've
tried making this as neutral a piece as
was possible. but the truth is that this
is an indian podcast and it's important
for the objective indian truth to be out
there for the global audience. this is a
lesson in history. it's a lesson in
geopolitics and it's a simplified update
on operation zindur and the ongoing
indiapakistan conflict. it features
abijit chavra. it's a fast-paced episode
about india and
[music]
pakistan. this one's for audiences all
over the globe. of course, it's for
indians and pakistanis who can converse
in english, who can understand english.
but uh we're trying to give out a
perspective on operation sindur and the
ongoing indiapakistan conflict from the
india perspective obviously because we
are in india. uh but i think this kind
of media piece is very much required at
this point in time. abij chavra welcome
back to trs. thank you. good to be back.
so i think we're going to approach this
whole piece from a bit of a contextual
perspective. i'm trying to divide the
whole situation into six strong chapters
so that the end listener can understand
the indiapakistan conflict uh at least
from the india perspective and we will
cover the pakistan narrative on
everything that's happening as well in
order to give you a more objective
outlook. so sir, we just recorded a
hindi episode and that was primarily for
the indian and pakistan audience and it
was important for us to give the indian
narrative there. in this one because
we're talking to the global audience,
i'm going to uh do the job of trying to
speak on behalf of the globe and the
questions that the globe has with
respect to conflict. so should we dive
straight in? let's do it. uh chapter
number one is about operation sindur as
well as briefly about the pelgam attack.
the angle here is that the
pakistani government which is
effectively the pakistani military yes
as well as the average pakistani
civilian uh doesn't look at the pelgam
terrorist attack as an
action which was greenlighted by the
government. they look at it as a
terrorist attack and they blame india
and the indian government for not having
provided security for the victims of the
terror attack. um but every single
indian is very very clear that this was
orchestrated by the isi in pakistan. uh
the the pakistani military was involved
in the attack. the response to the
attack has been what we call operation
sindur today. yes. uh i think the world
has somewhat of an idea of what
operation sindur is sir. but over to
you. right. right. so, operation sundur
was this series of strikes that we
carried out that india carried out on
pakistani terrorist camps and
infrastructure uh about 12 15 hours ago.
these were as far as we understand thus
far mainly missile strikes and some
strikes were done uh using loitering
munitions and drones. right. and this
was in response to the to the terrorist
attack and massacre that was carried out
in bahalgam in jammu and kashmir in the
yeah. so tourists were targeted. 25
indian citizens, one nepalese citizens
were executed point blank using those
execution style uh uh you know killings
and we have responded doing in this
manner using missile strikes and drone
strikes. so that's the context. now some
pakistanis will claim the pakistani
narrative is obviously going to be this
terrorist attack had nothing to do with
pakistan. look, it should be very clear
that pakistan has had a policy of state
support of terrorism, state sponsored
terrorism. uh last the last couple of
weeks uh the pakistani defense minister
said this on the record at least a
couple of times on western uh television
networks that pakistan has been doing
the dirty work for the west and the us
and the uk for decades essentially since
1979 when the ussr invaded afghanistan
pakistan became a proxy of the west they
they uh got a lot of money from the us
to fight to to essentially serve as as
the staging base of the mujahedin war
against the occupying soviet soviet
union. now once the war ended and the
soviets retreated, this capacity that
they that they had built up, this
mujahedin capacity was then diverted
against india and then in the 1980s
there was this entire terrorist um
outbreak in punjab in india. so this was
all carried out by pakistan. they had
train terror training camps and bases
across the border on their side of the
border and they would push in terrorists
across into india. so pakistan has had a
long history of being a terror terror
factory and as a consequence of this
india has suffered for decades. we've
had an entire population hundreds of
thousands of kashmir hindus who were
evicted from jammu and kashmir who still
haven't been resettled there and
pakistan has carried out terror attack
after terror attack on indian soil. uh
the parliament attack in 2001 the the
2008 mumbai attacks and many other
incidents come to come to mind. so the
latest attack was in pahelgam. this was
nothing but a series continuation of of
the same series. and india uh has
decided to respond in the way it has by
attacking by pinpoint targeting
terrorist infrastructure across the
border in pakistan occupied kashmir and
in pakistan proper. so that is what
operation zindur is. we still don't have
all the details of how this was this was
carried out. there are rumors that
pakistani aircraft have been shot down.
the pakistanis are claiming that i don't
know five indian fighter planes were
shot down and so on. so there are claims
and counter claims but what we know is
for sure is the video evidence that was
provided by india to the media today in
which you can see the terror the the
strikes being carried out on the
terrorist infrastructure. so that's the
that's what uh operation is thus far.
okay. um to give some context to the
global audience i would like to begin by
saying osama bin laden was also found to
be hiding in pakistan. absolutely.
that's why he was neutralized. yes.
let's begin the narrative there because
the narrative from the pakistani media
and honestly a lot of the average
pakistani population as well is that hey
we are actually a country that's
completely against terrorism. but the
truth is we had the defense minister
saying what he said publicly. it's
recorded. yes. even bilawal bha said the
same thing. yeah. they echoed this truth
that pakistan has been doing the dirty
work for the west for decades. yeah. and
if you've grown up in india um in the
'9s, the 2000s, the 2010s, you'd hear
about terrorist attacks regularly,
especially in jammu and kashmir. it was
a daily occurrence. can we briefly try
understanding jammu and kashmir's
context? uh could we explain it for the
world and why it's actually led to the
situation we find ourselves in? right.
so what's the genesis, the origin of
this entire matter? why are indian
fighting, pakistan fighting? look, we've
had something called the indian
civilization that has existed for
thousands of years. it's the oldest
continuously existing civilization on
the planet. now in the last thousand or
so years there were invasions of india
that were carried out by by essentially
what what are called turk invasions or
islamic invasions which were preceded by
arabic invasions and that's how regions
like afghanistan became entirely
islamized and regions like punjab and
sind a significant amount of people were
converted to islam and what happened in
1947 is that the british through their
indian proxies had india partitioned for
the sake of the of advancing their
geopolitical interests. so india was
given freedom. india and and pakistan
were created out of what used to be one
unified entity. so pakistan is an
artificial nation created by the uk and
then used by the west to serve their own
geopolitical interests. in the 20th
century there we had the cold war. india
essentially took the side of the ussr
and pakistan uh took the side of the
west. so which is why the pakistan got a
tremendous amount of western support and
funding and whatnot. and then you had
the invasion of of and and what happened
in
1947-48 is that the maharaja of kashmir
had signed the accession paper to as as
was the norm decide and he had decided
that jammu and kashmir would be part of
india. now this was accepted by india
eventually but then the pakistanis with
british help launched a military
invasion of jammu and kashmir and they
were able to capture some parts of
kashmir. the indian army uh then pushed
them back but for some reason india's
prime minister mr. nehu he then stopped
the indian army from uh liberating the
rest of jammu and kashmir which is why
you have parts of kashmir that are
currently under pakistani occupation
which is what we call pakistan occupied
kashmir. so that legally is indian
territory. the pakistanis claim that
it's it's pakistani territory and it's a
muslim majority region and whatnot. all
kinds of excuses and and arguments are
put forth to uh to legitimize their
claim. so that's been the the problem
that parts of indian territory are
currently occupied by pakistan. now the
first thing we have to understand is
that pakistan itself was created
undemocratically and illegitimately.
there was never any referendum in india
for pakistan. right? it was it was done
it was a top- down decision to to
bifurcate the country. it was created to
serve western geopolitical interest and
they have been leveraging this position
of pakistan ever since. u so that's the
genesis of the issue that's why kashmir
as the west would say is disputed
territory. look jammu and kashmir the
only dispute is that pakistan currently
occupies parts of jammu and kashmir that
belong to india. so that's the only
issue at hand from our perspective. but
what you are taught in the west is that
these are two nations uh that came into
existence in 1947 which never existed
before. and uh india is kind of
portrayed as the bad guy in the western
media uh because of pakistan's
historical role as a vasal or a proxy of
the us in the 1980s or '7s ' 80s and
onwards. so today parts of jammu and
kashmir are under pakistani occupation
and pakistan has played this role of
being a terror enabler a terrorist
factory and they their their lead their
officials have come on the record now
and put it on the record. so they have
clearly said that pakistan has been a
nation that has employed terrorism as as
a state policy and this is a
self-inflicted strategic unmasking. this
removes the fig leaf of plausible
deniability that they had now. so that's
now very clear that you can no longer
question the fact that pakistan is the
world's epicenter of terrorism and uh
india as a sovereign nation has the
right to respond and to put an end to
this menace that is is a global menace
and that's what we've done and that's
what that's where that's why we are
where we are today. yeah. uh on social
media if this issue is being spoken
about in any post you'll often see
indians and pakistanis debating in the
comment section and debating is a polite
word lots of fighting that's happening
yes it's two extremely different
narratives and both view the other side
as a terrorist
state especially after operation sundur
the average pakistani is viewing india
as a aggressor i would say aggressor
they're portraying india as the
aggressor in this matter the narrative
that's going out is hey look at the
indian military they targeted young
children they killed young children
uh let's first begin with giving context
on what the narrative about operation
sindur is from the india perspective
especially we'll address the pakistani
claims as well every big celebrity in
india has shared this post about
operation sinduris talking about it on
social media almost unanimously the
whole country is saluting the indian
military because most of us above the
age of 20 at least uh have seen the
history of terrorism in our country.
we've seen how innocent people have been
targeted. uh if not by pakistan, then by
who? that's my question. um everything
that's happened in kashmir over the last
20 years. i believe in 2016 and in 2019,
the indian military was targeted in
terrorist attacks and the indian
military responded. this was also near
the beginning of the modi regime in
india. um while the modi government is
criticized for multiple uh policies, the
one thing that they're unanimously
applauded for is their geopolitical
stance. dr. jay shankar has gained
respect wherever he's gone in the world.
and u my reading is that the average
indian irrespective of their political
beliefs supports the geopolitical
policies of the modi government. um it's
given india a much stronger stance on
the world stage and i'd also go as far
as saying that we're the fourth largest
economy in the world today. on the other
side of the border we have a collapsing
economy that says a lot in itself. uh
over to you beginning with the context
on operation synindur and you can
elaborate a bit or disagree a bit on
everything that i just said. m so uh
yeah the the indian military has been
targeted in the past 10 20 years before
that as well but more than the indian
military it's the indian civilians who
have been targeted that's what terrorism
is the definition of terrorism is that
you attack civilians instead of
attacking the the other your other
instead of the attacking your
adversaries military pakistan has has
had this policy of targeting civilians
and targeting the ordinary citizen and
that's the issue that's the issue
between the two nations when it comes to
mr. modi and his policies. i think i
personally think it's my personal
opinion he's the best prime minister
we've ever had and his government is the
best we've ever had and geopolitically
we have risen overall so much in the
past 11 years. uh our economy is like
you said like you rightly said it's now
the fourth biggest economy while
pakistan's economy is collapsing.
pakistan is is forever one step away
from annihilation. it's one step away
from complete economic bankruptcy and
it's it's uh depending on duel it's
depending on handouts from the world
bank and the imf and various other
masters the chi the chinese and so on
for just staying afloat so that's the
comparison between india and pakistan in
india we have a nation that is looking
forward that's looking to progress we
are going into space we are doing all
kinds of things and the pakistanis are
creating terror factories that's the
difference so the the bone of contention
is that pakistan is a terrorist nation
they their only real export the the only
thing that you could call if it's if it
has any value to to the to to the wrong
kind of people it's terrorism and it's
being direct directed at india. now when
it comes to the entire of pakistan's
being they say that what is pakistan it
is that we are not india we are of
indian origin but we we renounce our
indianness and india they they they seek
to portray india as the enemy to paint
india as the enemy. see pakistan is a
dictatorship. they have a prime minister
who is essentially a puppet. the nation
is run by the military and the isi which
is essentially the same entity. a bunch
of generals and a bunch of spook spies
who run the country and to legitimize
their their hold over the country. they
portray india as the as the bad guy and
india as an existential threat. uh where
india essentially would like to be left
alone. look, we have given up this whole
bunch of our territory. this huge amount
of territory. you and me are both from
northern western india. this is our
ancestral territory. you go back a few
hundred years, thousand years, our
ancestors all lived in this part of the
world. we have given up this territory
of ours to create a nation that you
currently own. why don't you leave us
alone? that's the only perspective that
we have. but they won't leave us alone.
and to legitimize their existence, they
have to paint india as the aggressor. it
is an existential threat. and that's
what justifies their terrorism. so we've
had enough of this. we have had enough
and we are now so powerful and so large
that pakistan essentially is a dawn
entity. the only thing that gives it
relevance is that the is the fact that
they have nuclear weapons which they
have it because of western and chinese
connivance that happened in the 1980s.
uh that's the only thing that gives them
legitimacy and that's that's the only
thing that gives them nuisance value. uh
so we know how to deal with pakistan
now. we are no longer going to just sit
back and being and be a soft state, a
punching bag. we're going to hit back
now. and this is just the beginning. if
they try to escalate, they're going to
they're going to face more pain. that's
for sure. that's guaranteed. before we
move into chapter 2, sir, i would love
for you to share some current context
with the global audience. as of now,
it's about 6:00 p.m. on the 7th of may,
2025. uh about 12 to 16 hours ago, we
witnessed operation sindur and now both
the militaries are at loggerheads. uh
what's the context to be given to global
audiences? so right now india has
responded to the pakistani provocation,
the pakistani terror attack by launching
what looks like missile and drone
strikes on pakistani terrorist
infrastructure. very pinpoint strikes
and there are claims and counter claims
on social media which i would
categorized as nothing but rumors that
uh various fighter planes from either
side have been uh have been targeted and
some of them have been shot down. i am
not sure how much of this is true. i've
seen some images on social media. i'm
not sure if they're old images or new
ones but what i can say for sure is that
this happened about 16 or so hours ago
and it is likely i would say that
pakistan will will try to retaliate in
some manner. so the question is what
kind of retaliation can happen. let's
examine some scenarios. scenario one,
they try to launch an air strike on
india which will be dangerous for them
because we are more than capable of
wiping out half of their uh air force
especially with the rafals which can
wipe out half of their airflow air force
from standoff ranges and they really
can't do a thing about it which means
that we are flying 100 kilometers within
india and we can still wipe out half of
the pakistani air force. we can do that.
so the the first scenario of them trying
to launch air strikes on india is not a
good scenario from their perspective.
the second scenario, so the first
scenario may be a 50% probability.
second scenario, maybe they try to
launch missile strikes. now we don't
have any terrorist infrastructure in
india because we don't have that. so
maybe they they can try and launch
missile strikes on indian army or
military installations. maybe there's a
30% chance of that. in that case, uh we
will have to retaliate because look, we
we can't tolerate that. so then we move
a step up the escalation ladder and then
yeah that that phase that hot phase
could could last for a while. the third
scenario i can i can think of maybe 20%
probability is that they will actually
try asymmetric means which will they'll
try and launch terror strikes
hypothetically on on indian on major
indian population centers. so these are
the three scenarios i can think of and
if that happens then india will have to
retaliate very significantly. if they
launch another strike, another terrorist
attack on a big city, that is going to
be an absolute red line that india
simply will not tolerate. if that
happens, you could see a significant
escalation, a significant response from
india this time. it makes sense from
their for for from from their pakistani
perspective to to stick to the military
angle, not the terrorist angle anymore,
which means that either they will launch
air strikes, they will try air strikes,
or they will try missile strikes. so
that's what could happen. and then it's
up to us how to retaliate. okay. um the
loc is an unofficial border between
india and pakistan. yes. uh for the last
10 days there have been tensions that
have escalated on the loc and there's
firing that's been on from both the
sides. um but today there was artillery
firing from the pakistani side as well.
uh a temple for sick people is called a
gurudara. the gurudara in punj was
damaged. uh six were killed. gur six
were killed who are um could be
understood to be sort of religious
figures in the world of six. so this is
the truth of what is happening right
now. uh this has been pakistan's
response to operation sindur. uh but of
course the response is being decided by
the higherups and this brings us to
chapter two the isi. uh tiny history on
the isi very much required.
i would also love for you to begin this
chapter by giving the pakistani
perspective on what the isi is. the
pakistani perspective on the isi is that
it is their uh intelligence
establishment. uh their spy agency.
every nation has a spy agency of some
kind. it's you know intelligence is a
good thing. you want to collect
information about what's out there in
the world. that's called domain
awareness, situational awareness. it's
so it's it's important for every nation
to have that. and there are various ways
of doing it. your diplomats also collect
intelligence in a very uh transparent
way. so that's what that's one way of
doing it. another way is to do it
through clandestine means by by by doing
it through means that are not entirely
legal etc. that's what intelligence
agencies typically do and the
interervices intelligence the isi is
pakistan's intelligence branch. now they
are so that is the pakistani
perspective. it is it is one of their
lines of defense. it is what enables the
the nation to know about what's
happening outside their country
especially and and from the pakistani
perspective the only threat that they
say is india because apparently we are
an existential existential threat for
pakistan. so their the isi essentially
uh is is is focused towards india. it's
its objective is to collect intelligence
through various ways about india about
what's happening in india and what our
plans are and so on and its other
objective is to destabilize us in
various ways. that's now this is my
perspective. this is the indian
perspective that i'm giving you. so, uh
the isi is an integral part of
pakistan's terrorist establishment, the
terrorist factory. uh pakistan has
always sought strategic depth in places
like afghanistan. if you look at the map
of pakistan, it's it's a pretty narrow
nation. it doesn't have these wide open
spaces like india has tremendous amount
of depth in its geography. pakistan, the
furthest part of pakistan would be a
couple of hundred kilometers at most
from india. so pakistan lacks lacks the
depth and that's why they've always
sought to have strategic depth in
afghanistan which is why they call they
created a terrorist organization called
the taliban which then they lost control
of and in the 1990s it's a it's an
organization that terrorized afghanistan
blew up the bian buddhas put women in
the in in horrible conditions and did
all those things but today the taliban
is an entirely separate entity that isi
has lost control of them. so pakistan
has always sought to play this game,
this game of using terrorism as part of
state policy and to something that
advances their geopolitical interests.
so afghanistan has suffered a lot from
that. uh the iranians to some extent
have suffered from pakistani terrorism.
last year i think there were iranian
missile strikes on pakistani
infrastructure within pakistan and we in
india have been the prime target. so the
isi is their main intelligence agency.
it is also the main enabler of
terrorism. pakistan is a nation that
seems to be a democracy. it seems to
have a parliament and state assemblies
and legislators and chief ministers and
a prime minister etc. but this is all
for show. its actual power center is the
isi military complex. the bunch of
generals who are at the top of the
military and the top isi people who
typically are interchangeable. you could
say it's the same entity but it it shows
different faces. so there's a separate
isis and separate military but actually
it's more or less pretty pretty much the
same organization and the terrorist
infrastructure is also part of the isi
military combination but it seems to be
it is shown as as so the various
terrorist organizations they are
typically depicted as charitable
organizations and religious
organizations that do charitable work
and and take care of orphans and
establish madrasas or schools or
whatever. so it looks like they're doing
a lot of charitable work and social
work, but that's a recruitment. that's a
ploy for recruiting the vulnerable and
the weak and the poor into their uh
terrorist machine. and then they are
sent across the border to get shot to
get mowed down by by indian uh armed
forces who are who are doing their job
of defending the country from
terrorists. u kind of tiny context
pieces that i'm going to list out is
very human context. uh first human
context is that the most dastardly
terrorist attack that i have witnessed
in my own lifetime is the 2008 mumbai
terror attack. yes. um i believe more
than 200 people were killed. uh the
official figure is 166. okay. but yeah
at that time it looked like thousands of
of people were uh and this happened in
the heart of mumbai. oh city. yes. uh
the one terrorist who survived the
mumbai terror attack uh was ajal kasab.
yes. ajal kasab was a youth from a poor
family in pakistan. he admitted to this
in custody. yes, i've had lots of people
on the podcast who have actually met
ajal kasab and everyone said that he was
completely brainwashed. that is what the
globe knows as the nucleus of terrorism.
that is what terrorism is. brainwash
people based on religious radicalism. uh
this is the first human context i want
to give the audiences. pakistan is a
terror factory.
and i think the whole globe knows this
as well. but it's the pakistani people
who are fed a different kind of
narrative. yes, i want to speak a little
bit about pakistani people. you end up
meeting them when you go to uae, when
you go to katar, you meet them all all
over the place. yeah. this pleasantries
exchanged because on some level indian
and
pakistani social ethos is very similar.
we are the same essentially. yeah. uh
culturally we are apart from the
religious angle, we're the same. sense
of humor matches. uh it's it's very
similar culturally. uh so the
conversation invariably goes to a point
where we say that hey you know you and
me want peace but it's a governments
that are at loggerheads. uh this is the
first time in my own adult life that i'm
seeing a situation where 99% of indians
don't want peace at this
point. that is the truth of the times
that we live in especially after
operation sindur. uh because we know
that if we don't engage in conflict
there's going to be more terrorist
attacks. that's just what pattern
recognition has taught us. the next
thing i'd like to say is about
pakistan's opinion on the pelgam attack.
the first response of most pakistanis on
social media is, "hey, where's the proof
when it comes to the pelgam attack? how
do you know that these guys came out of
pakistan?" how do you respond in a
situation like this? we we have so much
proof about all these terrorist attacks
that originated from pakistan. so i just
tweeted just now when we were outside
there's this american congressman who
had said that india has not done enough
to prove to the world that the pahelam
terrorist attack originated in pakistan
right so these people whether it's
americans whether it's the west whether
it's people from pakistan they keep
asking for proof what bigger proof do
you need like we mentioned like we
discussed than usama bin bin laden being
found on pakistani territory that ajal
kasab being a pakistani a origin
citizen, a terrorist. what bigger proof
do you need than bilawal bh coming on on
western media on western tv and saying
that pakistan has been doing the dirty
work for the americans and the west for
decades. what bigger proof do you need
than the pakistani defense minister
repeatedly saying on western media that
pakistan has had this track record of
terrorism and our hands are dirty. if if
the west had not made us do this, we we
would have been our record would have
been spotless. i think we are way past
the stage where we have to furnish
proof. when the americans wiped wiped
iraq flat, when they flattened entire
cities with millions of people, did they
first pause to give the world proof that
the that there are wmds or whatever?
when they launched their war on terror,
when george bush la la la la la la la la
la la la la la la la la la la la la
launches war on terror on the world, he
gave everybody a choice. you're either
with us or or against us and we're going
to hunt you down. we're going to smoke
you out wherever you are. if there's a
1% chance of a nation being a terrorist
nation, we cannot destroy the nation.
that's been the western approach. but
when it comes to us, we have to furnish
proof. we not we're done. we're done
furnishing proof. we know where our uh
enemy is. we know where our where the
threat to threat to our people lies and
we are no longer going to give proof.
we're going to address these issues and
we're going to put our national interest
first and foremost. and if anybody has
an issue with that, they can take a
hike. that's as simple as that. okay. um
context from the isi from the india
perspective. my only input here is i
think that the isi is one of the premier
enemies of world peace and the rest of
the world needs to know the indian
perspective on the isi and i'm trying to
be as objective and neutral here as is
possible. so the isi look it needs to be
exposed. the pakistani establishment the
military isi terrorist uh combination it
has historically served as a mercenary
organization. it's always served a
bigger master. look these people they
don't serve their people. let's say you
are a dictatorship and you have a fake
uh prime minister and legislator
legislature and all that but you are a
dictatorship and you are hiding behind
that but as long as you are still
serving your nation and your people
you're doing a good job and i have no
issue with with dictators who serve
their nations. lee kwanu was a great
example a man who brought singapore out
of a third third world status into a
first world status in just in just one
generation. he he you could call him a
dictator a benevolent dictator and so
on. so a dictatorship is i have no issue
with that. but the problem is that these
people, these generals and these isi
heads and bosses, they don't serve their
people. they don't serve their nation.
they serve whoever is giving them top
dollar. that's been their track record.
and they are using the pakistani people
as cannon foder. and the pakistani
people are brainwashed through the
education system and whatever other
indoctrination methods they have. a lot
of it involves some kind of religious
thing. that's a whole different angle.
so the pakistani people are brainwashed
into believing that these people are are
our saviors. the isi military terrorist
combination. it's it's our they are our
saviors who are keeping who are
safeguarding us from the evil neighbor
next door. yeah. there's another
objective human perspective here. every
time you go to a gulf country and you
meet a pakistani who's working there,
they all say that,
hey, that translates to the situation
back home is terrible. yes. they're
talking about the financial situation.
yes, the military which is actually
running the country doesn't know how to
run the country and they're running it
into the ground and their children all
live in the west. their families live in
the west and the average pakistani
citizen doesn't have that luxury or or
that privilege of having of being able
to escape the country situation. yeah.
the wealth disparity there, yeah, is
insane. that is what is causing the rich
pakistanis to settle in the uk, in
europe, um in dubai. the poor pakistanis
have to leave the country for the sake
of their families to provide and they're
not they're unhappy wherever they are.
they miss being back home and this is
the outcome of letting the military run
the country because in our country, the
military does the military's job.
absolutely. and they do a damn good job.
does it matter who's in power in
pakistan? it doesn't matter who's in
power. it doesn't matter who's the prime
minister because at the end of the day
it's the military isi combination and
the terrorist extension of theirs who
are genu who are actually in power.
yeah. another human context here. i once
met a pakistani journalist in uae. we
were at a content creator conference
together and uh he had told me this. i
was much younger at the time. this was
around four five years ago. uh he said
that you know one stark difference
between india and pakistan is in your
country the military doesn't own
anything. in our country, you walk
around and you'll see restaurants owned
by the military. yes. and businesses
owned by the military. no one knows this
until they actually visit pakistan. mhm.
this is what the globe doesn't know.
that is not how flourishing countries
operate. that's right. the military is
supposed to do the military's job. and
almost any leader that we see in power
in pakistan for a sustained period of
time is likely just a puppet of the
military. well, that's typically how you
fall out of power in pakistan. look, if
you are a pakistani politician, you have
to to the line of the isi military
terrorist uh uh entity. as long as you
do that, you're allowed to amass as much
wealth as you want. as long as you give
a certain percentage to the to the
bosses, but you can amass as much wealth
as you want as long as you don't try to
grab too much power. you have to
remember remember where the real power
lies. that's the difference between
power and wealth. i did this one episode
with susan sarin who's a geopolitical
analyst, studied pakistan his whole
life. what he basically said is that the
people in power are in charge of
policies, but if any of the policies are
not in accordance with what the army
wants, that's when you're in trouble.
yeah. so, you're given a warning, i
suppose, and you can rectify the the
errors, but if you persist in having
policies that go against what the army
isi entity wants, then you are in
trouble. and yeah, i wonder how this
kind of content doesn't reach educated
pakistanis or it does and they just
choose to look past it. i suppose they
choose to look past it. i suppose okay i
think we should move on to the next
chapter. uh let's kind of put a global
lens on this situation considering the
possibility that
u this conflict escalates what impact
will it have on global
economies perhaps beginning with both
the indian and pakistan economy? look,
the pakistani economy doesn't really
matter as as as an as as a it's it's not
big enough to matter globally. the
indian economy on the other hand is the
world's fourth fourth largest economy.
it really matters. um and there has been
this concerted push in the past few
months and even years to uh from the
west to uh have a china plus one policy
when it comes to manufacturing because
it was very clear that from the time
that trump was the 45th president the us
and china are moving in different
directions. so there was this necessity
that western companies saw that we need
to start looking beyond china for our
manufacturing base and the only nation
that is comparable in size and that's
the only viable candidate is india
because of its enormous size and
capacity. so it makes sense for western
companies now that the complete
bifurcation has happened, the complete
decoupling has happened because of
trump's trump's tariffs. it it makes
sense for western companies to move
their manufacturing base to india
because we in india can give them the
rates that they want and we have the all
the ingredients that you need. so for
that to happen, western companies need
to see india as a stable nation. now if
india is a nation that starts engaging
in war or gets dragged into in gets
embroiled in a war with some other
nation especially a terrorist nation
like pakistan then it makes india look
unstable and then if you are an investor
you'll be wondering should i invest in
this nation or will i lose my money if
if i do that. so if this situation
escalates and it becomes a full-fledged
war then it's going to be bad for the
indian economy and as an extension it's
going to be a destabilizing factor for
the global economy because india is so
large it can simply not be ignored.
india is a major component now of the
global economy. so it could be a
significant destabilizing factor. look
if india stays remains at peace for the
next 20 years there is no there is
statistically 0% chance of india going
into a recession. it's the only major
economy that is projected to keep on
growing at a really healthy rate
possibly very good 7% 8% plus possibly
if we can pull it off but india has no
chance of going into a recession but if
there's a war like situation that
persists and drags on for months or
years then that could be a big dampener
on india's economic growth and that's
bad for us it's bad for the world so
it's not in india's interest to get
embroiled in a ukraine-like situation
with the pakistani is if the situation
escalates what needs to happen is india
needs to very quickly have a war that
lasts 72 hours at most and do a pulse
pause kind of thing. you you pulse and
grab some territory 20 30 kilometers
inside you know in inside pakistani
occupied territory grab that stop there
and declare a unilateral pause and
inflict a proper military and political
defeat on pakistan and then you ensure
that they don't repeat that again so
that's the kind of policy india will
need to have i'm sure it's all been war
gamed out i mean that's what you do as
as a as military generals and as as a
professional armed force so i think if
this situation persists it's going to be
bad for the global economy right now
india is not the origin at at any of the
ends of a global supply chain network
but it it makes sense for india to
become like that in the next 5 10 years
so u i would want this situation to calm
down as soon as possible and i think
it's up to us i think it's in the ball
is in india's india's corner it's in
india's court to ensure that the
pakistanis understand that this cannot
this is not a sustainable situation if
you try to escalate you're going to have
be met with more pain disproportion pain
and we're going to end this as soon as
possible. it's looking like they're
going to escalate. well, look, if they
don't escalate, then the isi military
entity loses face. they lose their
legitimacy in the eyes of the people uh
of pakistan and then there's going to be
riots in the streets because people will
say that what are you doing? you you're
not doing what you're supposed to do.
so, if they don't escalate, they they
will face the wrath of their people. so,
it looks like they will be forced to
escalate in some way. let's see how they
escalate. u i think they could es
escalate uh asymmetrically. i hope it
doesn't happen but we need to be on
careful in india that there are no major
or or minor terrorist incidents in big
cities. that's one method that is very
favored that has historically been
favored by the pakistanis of escalating
against india. if the conflict escalates
who does it benefit? there is one entity
that that does benefit and that is
china. look, right now there's this
trade and tariff war going on between
the chinese and the us. it's been
initiated by president trump. 145%
tariffs which has essentially
effectively decoupled the two economies.
china was the major exporter to the us.
now they are not exporting almost
nothing and they they are being denied
western technology which may be a little
bit too late but whatever. so the us has
not only dumped a whole bunch of tariffs
on the chinese but they have started a
trade war with their own allies. so it
looks so it makes the us look like an
unpredictable and slightly crazy nation
and the chinese look mature and stable
in comparison. if the americans if trump
had not imposed tariffs on his allies,
it would have been a whole different
situation. but because he has done it to
his own allies, that's why the chinese
seem to have the upper hand in that
matter. so if this situation escalates
then it's good for china because then
their major rival or competitor within
the asian the asian sphere kind of you
know things don't look very very good
for it. it looks unstable and uh
investors will be wary of investing in
india in that situation if the situation
prolongs. so so the only entity that
really benefits it's china in this
situation. the chinese have been trying
to deescalate things with india. there
was this terrible uh clash in 2020 or
something the galwan clash 20 indian
soldiers died and many more chinese died
but the chinese never released the
actual
figures and then there's there was this
this uh standoff between india and china
along the undemarcated india tibet
border that persisted for years now last
year last year the chinese began the
process of of let's say deescalating the
escalation was done by them the
deescalation was also initiated by them
so now the two sides have kind stood
down to a certain extent but at the same
time the chinese are actually
strengthening their positions militarily
on their side of of the india tibet
border. so the chinese have been making
sounds and noises like they want to
deescalate with india and they want to
kind of hosim with india. uh but i think
that phase is gone now. i think we may
be past that now. now uh after after the
indian strikes on pakistan 15 hours ago
the chinese strongly condemned india's
actions even though these actions are in
our national interest and we are not
attacking any civilians. so i think
we're going to see a new china pakistan
access kind of phase and the india china
friendship which may have possibly
happened i think that's t now what does
it mean for america? what it means for
america is that china gets what they
have rejected.
so the americans have seem to have
washed their hands of pakistan which is
why pakistan has been pakistani leaders
have been saying openly that they have
been doing terrorism for the americans.
so that only happens when the when your
master has has served you with divorce
papers. so china now gets a new proxy
just like north korea. they'll get
another nation like pakistan and
pakistan will somehow be integrated in
into their plans. u the americans would
want india to be stable. the see india
is a major component of their
indopacific strategy. they want to
isolate china. the us wants to isolate
china and you and if you want to isolate
china, you need to prop somebody up who
who could become a counterweight. now
india doesn't want to be used in that
way. but sometimes you have no choice
when you have a neighbor like china
right next door. uh so we will have to
play a certain kind of game, a kind of
balancing game. but if india gets
embroiled in a warlike situation which
persists with pakistan over months or
years, then it is bad for india. it's
bad for the indian economy and by
extension it's bad for the western
economy and the us economy. the us would
want apple and whatever other microsoft,
nvidia, etc. whoever it is to set up
manufacturing in india to replace what
they have in china. but if india is
unstable, then it's not going to happen
and it's going to be bad for their
economy as well. so for from the us
perspective they would want the
situation to stabilize as soon as
possible and that obviously can happen
only um on india's terms not on
pakistan's terms because pakistan
doesn't have the heft to inflict any
kind of defeat on india. it can only be
a nuisance factor or nuisance as in
terrorism. so we're going to have to
find a quick way of ending this.
effectively it doesn't benefit anyone on
a global level other than china. other
than china. that's right. okay. moving
on. i want to draw out a hypothetical
scenario for you and please tell me what
you think about this. in the long drawn
trajectory of this conflict, i think
there will be a day where the pakistani
military is nearing its own extinction.
yeah. would they be tempted to use nukes
at that point? does it make sense to lob
nukes at your neighbor when destruction
is guaranteed? they launch one nuke at
us that's going to be the tripwire which
will give us the kak blanch for
launching a 100 nukes at them we will
not tolerate that so in from any sane
person's perspective nuclear weapons
should never be used it's simply uh you
know it's it's insurance but it's
something you never want to use in in
realistically in in real life so i think
if the pakistani military in in a future
in a future date if it's not on its last
legs i think the generals in the brass
will just simply choose to, you know,
take a flight and and leave the country.
but then the question arises that what
happens to the nukes because they are
still on pakistani soil. and that's
where we don't know what happens. we
don't know what happens. will the
chinese step in and take them? will the
americans step in and take them? or will
we be able to step in and and secure the
nukes? that is a a rather gray area. and
that is a point of of major concern
because when you it's like giving a
chimpanzeee a machine gun that sort of
thing you know nothing anything could
happen. uh so that's why pakistan is so
dangerous and that that's the dilemma
that we face as to what happens there.
so u right now we look at the short-term
scenario but i think long-term like i
said the clock has already started
ticking. the the pahelgam attack was an
inflection point in pakistan's history
and that is the day the the countdown
clock started ticking for pakistan. uh
we have already abrogated the indust
treaty which means that now pakistan's
crops will not you know do very well
their their agriculture sector will not
do very well. basically the water that's
originating in india will not find its
way to pakistan. it will find its way to
pakistan but irerratically. it will not
flow as expected and we are no longer
under any obligation to give them
advanced warning of how much water we're
going to withhold or when we're going to
release more water. so it's going to be
problematic for pakistan and you know
they have given us no choice but to
employ these these means. uh so yeah the
clock is ticking for ticking for
pakistan now. uh their economy is going
to go downwards. i think india needs to
ensure a complete uh global boycott of
pakistan. isolation of pakistan
economically uh diplomatically etc. but
they're going to have new masters. so
they're going to have a network that
they can tap into. okay. the next
chapter and this is very key for me. um
we got to speak about the ethics of the
situation because in truth extremely
objectively speaking ethics are always
subjective and both sides view the other
one as the oppressor as the aggressor.
mhm. uh i think most of the globe
understands what is happening in the
countries because of pakistan's history
with respect to terrorism. yes. at least
that's what i sense based on uh the
coverage that i see um on some news
channels like i think sky news had a
reporter who gave it back to the the
information minister of pakistan. that
lady is of afghan origin, yala haken.
okay. yes. uh and she gave it back very
well and he didn't have the right
responses for her. he kind of just
deflected the accusations. he said that
we categorically categorically denied
this at the end. that's what he said.
yeah. um but you can't deny what the
world has seen over the last two
decades. yes. uh she also said that
would you be willing to take journalists
to the site of the attacks and confirm
that children and families are actually
targeted by the indian military? he
deflected it again. mhm. he says, "yeah,
of course we're ready." and she's like,
"no, but we haven't been given access."
that's why i'm bringing up the question,
right? the world is witnessing moments
like this.
um, in your eyes, sir, considering just
this one statement that ethics are
always subjective based on side that
you're
on. that also extends itself to the
possibility that some terrorist thinks
that they're doing the right thing.
well, i'm sure most terrorists think
that they're on the right side, right?
yes. but here we're talking about two
nations at war. and anything that an
indian social media page is uploading
about operation synindur is being viewed
as a vile act by all pakistanis. and i'm
also assuming that the pakistani media
this morning was carrying the news uh
that we targeted women and children.
okay. um good point to talk about azar
masud also. okay.
uh and the jes mohammad and
uh his hideout which was also the home
for his family being targeted. mhm. and
pakistani military leaders attending the
funeral. mhm. this is a visual for the
world to see. yes. very clear. uh how is
the average pakistani not digesting the
truth about the ethics of what's going
on? right. good question. and look,
first of all, we have to look at it from
this perspective. terrorism is evil. i
don't think i have to say this, but
maybe i do have to say this. terrorism
is evil. what is the definition of
terrorism? the definition of terror is
that you have an adversary and you
choose to target their citizens, the
helpless citizens. it is okay in by the
rules of warfare to target the
adversaries military. but you don't
target civilians. you don't target
women, children, unarmed people,
non-combatants. and that's the
definition of terrorism. and that is
exactly what pakistan has been doing for
decades now. i get the feeling that most
pakistanis see this as legitimate for
whatever perspective. maybe it's a
cultural perspective. maybe it's
something else. i don't know. it beats
me. i mean, maybe the news doesn't reach
them. i think the mumbai attacks reached
them. the news of that reached them. and
i would say most of them would have many
of them at least would have celebrated
that we inflicted this this pain on
india. uh they see india as the enemy.
they are taught they're indoctrinated to
see india as the enemy and therefore
it's okay to hurt india to bleed india.
so i think a significant majority of the
pakistani population would be okay with
terrorism or any other means.
so my first point is from an ethics
perspective targeting civilians,
targeting non-combatants is evil.
terrorism is evil. and i don't think we
are in a we are in a situation where we
have to prove that pakistan is being
doing this. so pakistan clearly is a
terrorist nation. it's the global
epicenter of terrorism. i think most
pakistani citizens are okay with
terrorism as as long as as it is
directed at india. and from an ethics
perspective, when you have an evil
nation that is constantly bleeding you,
you have the right to self-defense. i
don't think i need to say that we have
the right to self-defense, but maybe we
didn't need to state this. so, we will
do whatever it takes to end this
abomination that is pakistan's terror
factory. and if civilians by chance get
affected during our retaliation, it is
not our responsibility. it is the
responsibility of the terror machine
that they are putting civilians, their
own civilians in harm's way by having
terror factories all across the place.
that's what i would say. my perspective
is very clear. india is the victim. it's
not pakistan that's the victim. india is
the victim. we have been the victim of
this for decades. and now we're going to
stand up for ourselves and we not no
longer going to be a soft state, a
punching bag. you hit us, we're going to
hit you back twice twice as hard. and
this can go on indefinitely if you want.
okay. um i think this is a good point to
end the episode. you know, i'd like to
tell the world that if you actually
study the history of india and pakistan,
uh the muslims who chose to stay back in
india wanted to stay alongside people of
other faiths. you know, that's an
interesting point you bring in. see,
india and pakistan were created as two
nations and pakistan was was cut out of
indian territory as a homeland for the
muslims. but a whole lot of muslims
chose to stay back in india. were they
forced to leave india? did the hindus
force them to leave india? when turkey
became independent in the 1920s, there
was this forced uh expulsion of
christians and and non-muslims out of
turkey. and the same thing happened from
greece. we did not ever do that. we had
no issue with muslims staying back in
india. so that that proves that, you
know, it is our cultural and
civilizational ethos to be accepting of
everybody. we have no hate for anybody.
it's the pakistanis who have hate. if
you look at the fate of their non-muslim
population since 1947, look at what's
happened. they have been decimated.
they've been genocided or converted. so,
we are very different
nations. we are two very different
nations. pakistan is definitely not like
india and we don't want to be like them.
yeah. uh i think when you build an
entire nation on the concept of religion
it does lead to problems in the long
term. u a nation especially in the
modern day uh that wishes to do well
globally has to have secular flavor has
to have cosmopolitan flavor and that is
why we're the fourth largest economy
because we're a combination of multiple
faiths. uh but this narrative is also
important for the global context. uh the
only thing i'd like to point the
audience towards now is a video about
the bla the baloj liberation army
because this indiapakistan conflict is
not the only problem that pakistan is
currently going through. uh it is
inching towards civil war as well. look
up the history of balojasthan. look up
everything that's happening there right
now and head into any of our old
podcasts. ac, thank you. this was a
pleasure. once again, hope we did our
job well for the global audience. thank
you. thank you, sir. that was the
episode for today. ladies and gentlemen,
i'd point you towards the episode we
created with susan sarin. it's a
detailed breakdown of everything that's
happening in pakistan outside of the
india pakistan conflict. um i hope that
this particular podcast reaches a lot of
pakistanis out there as well. i repeat,
india does not count the average
pakistani as its enemy. for us, the isi
and the pakistani military are the
greatest villains when it comes to the
process of peace between our nations and
also in some way the biggest villains
when it comes to the subject of world
peace.
uh, this episode was created with the
intention of reaching global audiences.
so, if you're from another country, i'd
love to hear your feedback on this
episode. going to be creating a lot more
geopolitical content in the near future.
thank you for listening in
[music]