how does india look like from this
space?
>> looking at india in the daytime, colors
are amazing. the himalayas are
absolutely amazing. you can see uh when
the rivers run off, how they interact.
night, india is pretty spectacular. the
cities are lit up and all those lights
seems to be like connected.
sita williams and buchil are still stuck
in space and are not expected to return.
>> 10-day test flight turned into a 9-monl
long mission in space.
>> this after their boeing starlininer
faced ruster failure.
>> this time, this flight, the last one,
was pretty messed up.
>> once after we launched and then we got
to the space station, we knew we weren't
going to come home as planned. we knew
it would be six more months. when you're
in space and coming home is a byproduct
of this business, it's risky.
>>
>> how many situations do you plan for?
>> oh gosh, hundreds. trained for two years
for a launch of a spacecraft cuz we go
through with our control team. hey, what
if this failed? what if that failed? and
what's the probability of this and that
happening?
>> was there any point where you heard some
sound and you got scared? we were all a
little on edge when in this latest
flight when we had a satellite below us
in orbit um explode and then there was a
bit of a debris field and so we were
woken up in the middle of the night to
all go to our own spacecraft. it's
called safe haven and we all sort of
hugged each other. hopefully i'll see
you on earth.
>> did you feel lonely in one of those 286
days?
>> people that you end up living in space
they become family.
>> have you cried in space? oh, absolutely.
absolutely. i miss people and i miss my
dog, so of course i cried.
>> what was the most difficult part for you
of the training?
>> like if i have to just go do something,
it doesn't bother me. i've trained. i've
done it. like spacew walk stuff, robotic
stuff doesn't make me nervous. but
academics in college were hard for me.
>> before you set a foot on your first
flight, you saw what happened with kalpn
chavla. she's a friend of yours. she's a
role model. and you saw her death.
>> this day has brought terrible news and
great sadness to our country
that colombia is lost. there are no
survivors.
>> did that event change anything you? i
think the desire to explore more. i
think it g gave us even more of a
feeling of like we really want to
continue this. we've got to do this in
their memory. we're not going to let
their situation put a stop on it. they
wouldn't want that. so, we're going to
press harder.
what's the health cost you pay when you
come back?
>> for me, i always feel a little nauseous
when i come back. the neurovvestibular
system has not been working while you're
up in space. it's sort of shut down and
you have other feelings of orientation
while you're up there. for me, i felt
pretty nauseous for like 24 hours.
>> do you believe there's some life out
there?
>> absolutely. with those billions of stars
out there,
we're just a little planet around one
star.
so yeah, there's life out there.
>> how does space smell like? tell me about
your biggest insecurity. what's the
strangest thing you've seen in the space
which you think is going to be hard to
believe for people here?
>> interesting. um
uh
before starting today's episode, i have
a small request. the whole team and i
are working very hard to bring bigger
and bigger guests for you so that we can
give you more value and learnings
through better conversations. and to
continue doing that, i need you to
subscribe our channel. it's free and
takes only 2 seconds. and we promise
that if you do this, we'll keep bringing
the top 1% guests from all around the
world and make you prouder one day. our
today's guest has done nine spacew
walks, spent more than 62 hours walking
in space, more than any other women in
human history. very few women get to
lead the international space station.
and she's not just commanded the iss
once, but twice. she has been part of
three epic iss missions, spent 608 days
in space, the second most of any nasa
astronaut ever. i'm talking about sunita
williams, the woman who's flown 40
different aircraft, served as a navy
captain, and is also the first human
being ever to have run a marathon in
space. and just last year, she was
stranded in space for 9 months when a
spacecraft failed. the whole world
washed, but she didn't panic. she took
the charge. and in this conversation,
we'll figure out the training, the
mindset, the sacrifices it took to
become one of the greatest female
astronauts in the world. and what does
it take to build a mindset where you can
be calm when everything is going against
you?
i'm just really, really honored to do
this. i just wanted you to know this.
>> well, thank you. it's fun. it's great to
be here. it's great to have a podcast. i
know it opens up to another audience.
so, thank you for the invitation.
>> everybody knows you, but let's say if
0.01% people don't know you,
>> okay,
>> then what about your childhood you would
tell them which has shaped you the
person who you are today? uh i think the
biggest thing about my childhood that
shaped me was i came from a family that
was multicultural, multi- religions, um
multi food,
most important i guess. and uh and
that's a really it's a big benefit. i
didn't you know you don't realize it
when you're a kid, you know, it's just
it's life. it's how it is. um but i
think uh just appreciation for different
cultures at a young age not even
realizing it i think was really
beneficial and set me up um for success
i would say just because i i feel like i
can um relate to a lot of different
people or at least have the patience to
listen for a moment.
>> at what point in your childhood you felt
like this is a strength like m being
multicultural is a strength now? oh
gosh. i don't think i realized it for a
long time for a while. like it it was a
little bit i think more so um
we were different. we are a different
family and we all knew that but i don't
know i didn't know if it was a strength
until later on in life where um
>> uh just easy to deal with people. i
think [snorts] that
>> what do you mean by different?
>> uh well we were the only indian family
in our town.
>> okay.
>> or partially indian family. so i think
we stuck out pretty much. my sister and
i had long hair, of course, long indian
hair while we were growing up. we were
also swimmers and so we were the type
that got up in the morning and swam
before school coming into school with
wet hair and so we were just different
in regards to other people in the town.
i think people knew who we were then
too. the pandas.
>> yeah.
>> did you at any point feel like that was
maybe a weakness or that maybe put you
in a different light than other people?
>> oh, sure. like as a kid, you know, of
course when you're like a a a kid or
more so like when you're an early teed,
you're you're when you don't blend in
with everybody else and you're a little
bit different. of course, that's a
little bit uncomfortable. um but it also
at the same time i was i think
confident, secure in myself that i, you
know, i thought the more important thing
was athletics and academics and i didn't
really didn't really bother me that
much. were you insecure at any point?
>> absolutely. my whole life i think every
and i think everybody is. they just have
to sort of push through it and i think
that's part of part of life is just like
pushing through boundaries and things
that make you feel a little
uncomfortable and that's the way you can
achieve more. so yeah, absolutely. yeah.
>> tell me about your biggest insecurity.
>> uh ah gosh, my biggest i don't know
about my biggest. i mean just
i my whole job uh from being um you know
like first of all as a athlete as a you
know you get on the starting blocks
you're nervous right so that's one thing
you're a little bit insecure about your
capabilities and your abilities uh gets
proven in the pool or on the track or
wherever it is um but you know just
getting to that starting point as they
say is is a little bit scary um and then
just i think in all of the things that i
in my career that i've done i had major
insecurities about it. like, wow, am i
am i going to be able to pass this check
ride? am i going to be able to be a
pilot? am i going to be able to know how
to do a spacew walk? am i going to be
able to do the robotic arm? i think all
those all those things. i think there's
points of insecurity. yes, you prepare
as best as you can, but then at this at
one point in time, at least myself, i
doubt myself at times. um, you know,
like
>> do you do that today?
>> absolutely. i think we all do it. i
think we all do that. like if you don't
then you're not really being
introspective. i think
>> true.
>> i think it's hard to think that you know
everything and not have an appreciation
for uh the rest of the world around you
that might have a surprise for you.
>> what are you insecure about today? like
you've accomplished so many things now.
>> um
a a lot. i mean the next steps of my
life. what am i going to do in the next
steps of my life? i, you know, i want
to, we're moved. i'm retired. we've
moved. uh, what am i going to do? i
don't know. and i mean, think i'm
insecure about it, but i don't really
care cuz it's going to be it's all i
know better now. it's all going to work
out. i wish i had known that when i was
a kid. uh, you know, cuz i think those
insecurities take over a little bit more
when you're younger when you don't
realize it's all going to work out.
>> you know, it's so fascinating.
you do like your main work is
uncertaintity for living. like that's
what like you don't know what's going to
happen the next moment and you're you
think about what's going to happen next.
that's like you're insecure about the
uncertaintity in your life like what's
going to happen now but you've lived all
your life just thinking about let's live
in the moment and not think about what's
going to happen next.
>> uh yes and i think you you bring up a
good point. let's i think that is the
way you deal with it. like let's live in
the moment. like i think people have
insecurities of course when they look in
the future and you but you can't you
can't make it you can guide it but you
can't uh anticipate every little thing.
so living in the in the moment is i
think the best methodology.
>> you know you say a lot about that
u you've made a pivot every time things
don't work out you made a pivot.
>> so you wanted to become something else
in the childhood then you applied for
certain things you didn't get in and
then you finally ended up becoming who
you are today. how did you know that
>> this is something that you don't want to
give up? because everything every time
when it didn't work out, you just
pivoted. you're like, "maybe not for me,
not for me, not for me." and then,
>> well, i i i like this is another thing i
think i wish i knew when i was a younger
kid that, you know, things work out for
a reason. um, maybe it's because you
have better qualifications in one area
than another, although you think this is
what you might want to do. um and be
ready for those extra doors to open that
you didn't even anticipate. so those are
things that i like i said i wish i had
known then because i think i was a
little bit more had more anticipation
maybe a little bit more nervousness
about it when i was younger versus just
like sort of going with the flow because
like let's just see what's behind the
next door cuz it might be something that
i never even imagined and things like
that. so that's why i mention this when
i'm talking to kids about this this
younger age pivot about trying to know
what you want to do when you're 17 that
seems almost ridiculous now that i look
back and think about it and i ask and i
find myself asking kids too like what do
you want to be when you grow up? what do
you want to do when you grow up? how the
heck do they know? it's sort of a silly
question to ask them. so more should
more should be like what do you what are
you interested in? um what what what
kinds of things have you been exposed to
or what what do you do you want to do
something else or can i uh guide you to
a direction that might be something that
you never even thought of you know
that's i think more appropriate
questions honestly now that i look back
at the whole thing because how the heck
do you know what you want to do when
you're a kid and you and i think that
causes a lot of anxiety and stress with
people and you don't need to have that
>> true what got you interested in this in
space in nasa in the things that you i
wasn't really a straight shot. so, it
wasn't what i wanted to do when i was a
kid. um, even when i was a pilot, i
really wasn't a helicopter pilot. it
wasn't the first thing on my list. it
wasn't until later that i got exposed to
it. so, that's why i say like when i was
just mentioning like for if i'm talking
to a kid like how can i expose you to
something else like like um just take a
look at you know the spa space program,
take a look at aviation those are my
backgrounds, right? take a look at
diving or you know expose them to some
other person adult that has done
something different um just so they get
an idea of things that are out there. um
anyway, it wasn't until i met somebody
who had gone to space, had gone to
johnson space center, and then i was
like, "wow, this job looks like fun."
and some of those people were my friends
um that i had known as a test pilot. so
i trusted their opinion also. uh so
getting to know more and more people um
who are in the jobs that potentially you
might like is a good idea. so like if i
i had not really talked to a
veterinarian beside for when i went to
the vet with my dog. so
probably i should have done like some
type of internship somewhere with a
veterinarian to find out if i really
like that but i hadn't didn't do that.
>> true. so but let's say you got
interested in it but before you enter
i'm assuming like before you enter a
rocket they would test you in some way
right maybe mentally physically there
would be some kind of training going on.
>> oh absolutely. when you first get to uh
become an astronaut, wherever you're
going to be an astronaut, if it's at,
you know, an american astronaut at
johnson space center, european in
cologne or uh you know, japanese in at
jaxa or if you're going to be uh like um
shukla and and and do it like an axiom
flight, you're going to be tested one
way or the other here or uh during the
process to one become an astronaut and
then two and you're on your journey to
get trained to be ready to go. so
there's testing all the way along the
way. so that's um sometimes
intimidating, right? and going back to
the insecurities a little bit. that's
sort of like, wow, i've never learned
how to do this before. i don't know if i
know how to do robotic move the you
know, operate the robotic arm or um you
know, get ready for a spacew walk. how
am i going to learn how to do this? and
you know, you find the mentors, the
people who have done it before. same all
the way back. it's it's full circle like
it's like having you know
talking to a kid about something that
they might want to do and find out as
much as you can and learn as much as you
can and and study and and figure it all
out and actually if you have to studying
means also like for spacew walks work
out right because it's it's physically
demanding. so you know what you need to
do the the background for each of those
things and do the best that you can.
>> is there any psychological screening
that you go through? oh yeah. yeah, that
there is definitely some uh testing like
just on paper testing. i'm not really
sure what all that indicates, but there
is some of that and maybe it's just to
annoy you because you have to take a lot
of you do a lot of written tests. i
don't know what it's for exactly, but
then there's um parts where we are
looking at astronauts um together as
they're getting interviewed, giving them
a problem that's very hard to solve and
seeing how they do that. and that's not
just like a a paper problem like a you
know like take this whatever this table
and move it over this bridge and around
this water and put it there and and put
people in groups and see who naturally
falls out as a leader who naturally you
know adds to the team. so we want to
make sure we have team players because
none of this is done by ourselves.
>> yeah.
>> um and then we also do along the path
when you're getting trained during the
time for that you're waiting we go to
national outdoor leadership school. so,
you learn a little bit about yourself um
as well as other people cuz you're it's
taking you away out of the scenario to
some place. maybe you're backpacking,
maybe you're doing rafting or something
where you're in an uncomfortable
situation. you're not sleeping in your
own bed. you're sleeping in a tent.
you're making your own food. uh you're
going to the bathroom in weird places.
you know, getting your all getting you
sort of ready for um working as a team
and then finding out where your hot
spots are, where your points are that
that make you uncomfortable. um i'm i
like uh organizing, you know, my stuff.
you know, everybody has their little
nest whenever they're have the things
that they have. and when somebody
doesn't and their stuff's all over the
place, it a little bit drives me crazy.
and i so i know that about myself. so i
know when i might encounter a crew mate
that um has stuff like all over the
place that might it might cause me
anxiety, but that's my problem and i
have to deal with that. so does that
make sense? so you understand more about
yourself because you can't change other
people.
>> what was the most difficult part for
you? the most difficult part
>> of the training
>> of training um
uh i get nervous about tests. um i think
it's it's more like just when you have
to do rote memorization. i think that's
what um i was sort of well i was a lot
insecure about if you want to go back to
that. well, during my college academics,
um, i i struggled. i did really well in
high school. so, i had a base because i
had went to a really good high school in
our public high schools. um, but
academics in college were hard for me.
just taking tests were hard.
understanding,
>> you know, i don't know, whatever it
written tests are hard. so, that carries
that's carried through my whole life.
so, whenever i have a written test, um i
i can feel that i get a little bit
nervous about it. um actually doing
something i don't get nervous about.
like if i have to just go do something,
it doesn't bother me. like i just i've
trained, i've done it like spacew walk
stuff, robotic stuff doesn't make me
nervous. i just sort of put the things
together logically in my head and i can
do the task. but memorizing things and
writing stuff down, that's that's not
that's the tough part. that's tough for
me.
>> but what happens like is it not tough
when five thrusts are failing? you're
like in middle of situation where it's
like chaotic. you don't know what's
going to happen.
>> um i think you know like
>> isn't that tough like you have to
compartmentalize that particular moment.
compartmentalization is is something
that we've trained to do quite a bit
like just with our military training as
a military pilot because you can only um
fix one thing at a time and you have to
just know your systems well enough to
understand what capabilities you have
and how you're going to work with those
capabilities. so, as the thrusters were
were failing, yes, this is a bad
situation. butch and i looked at each
other and we're like, "oh, this is not
so good." um, but we knew what we needed
to do. we needed, what we really needed
to do was dock to the space station
because we didn't know
>> how our spacecraft would react if we
were doing other maneuvers at that point
in time. so that was the biggest thing.
and i think i mean just like the movie
the martian.
>> mhm.
>> if you look at how he solved problems,
it's like one little bite at a time.
when you have a big problem, you can't
you can't deal with it, right? it's too
much. it's overwhelming. i think just in
life [clears throat] that happens too.
sometimes you like, i don't know, if
you're um want to change something at
your house, sometimes the project looks
too big and you just have to take one
little bite at a time. okay, i'm just
going to start with painting or i'm just
going to start uh you know with picking
out something that i have to add to my
house. same thing happens with these big
problems, right? with thrusters like,
okay, we we can't go outside and fix
them. so we have to deal we have to deal
with what we have and we have to just
handle this situation and um we didn't
start thinking about at least i didn't
think start thinking about how we are
going to come home. i thought like let's
just focus on docking and everything
because there's many parts of all of
that uh and make sure that is all
squared away. if that doesn't happen
then we'll work on the next thing. so
you solve things one piece at a time. i
think that's how you solve big problems.
but is there any mental technique that
helps you keep calm during the time of
chaos? is there some kind of breath work
that you do? is it some kind of
visualization technique? something that
you do or you're just trained yourself
so much that you don't care. like it
just comes naturally.
>> i think it comes naturally at this point
honestly. um
i we've all been in situations flying
aircraft that something doesn't work
quite right and you just sort of have to
figure it out and get it on the ground
as when you can. i mean, i had my own
little aircraft and that situation
happened at one point in time when the
winds picked up quite a bit and i had to
just sort of figure out like, okay,
we're not going to land here. we're not
going to land here. we're not we're
going to land here. but at some point in
time, we have to land. we're running out
of gas. so, so, um, you know,
you have to make that situation happen,
right? same thing with spacew walks,
too. like, you know, something might not
go well right from the get-go, but
doesn't mean you you stop and you just
don't do anything. on my first spacew
walk, i lost a camera. you know, you
just can't you can't just sit there and
be sad about these things. you just have
to move on and and pick it the pieces up
and just go with what you have. and the
same thing with the thruster situation
on starlininer. and um you know,
we knew that there would be a plan. we
have what we practice quite a bit with
our mission control team about what we
call like no radio procedures, nordo
procedures. and so if we didn't weren't
able to communicate with them, i think
we would have already had a a plan to go
into 10 meters and wait there and try to
figure out how the spacecraft flew. if
the spacecraft didn't fly very well,
then we would back away because we
wouldn't want to put the state space
station in danger.
>> how many situations do you plan for
before you go?
>> oh gosh, hundreds. um, and that's what
all that training is for. so people
sometimes say like, why do you have to
train for two years for a launch of a
spacecraft? because we go through with
our control team all of the different
things that not us only them all of them
think of hey what if this failed what if
that failed and what's the probability
of this and that happening so people
have talked through all of that as much
as they can so it was interesting
actually i was just uh talking to
somebody about an electric airplane i'm
like what kind of failures do you have
there because usually when you're
thinking about failures of something
mechanical like your car there's oil
there's gas there's mechanical parts. so
if it's an electric vehicle, what
problems do you have there? so batteries
obviously. so it's a whole different,
you know, every every mechanical thing
has some some type of problems and so
you just got to be creative in the way
you think about uh the failures.
>> has it ever happened that you've trained
for everything and still something new
has happened? oh, the thruster failure
obviously was you know we've
trained for failure uh you know thruster
problems and we've actually flown the
simulator with one or two thrusters uh
not working and of course the controls
are sloppy. so five was a big deal and
and actually went against some of our
flight rules about how we were going to
operate the spacecraft. and so um so
that's when the control team came into
play and then they turned off some of
the um monitoring systems as well as
restarted the engines. and that way we
were able to at least get
controllability, make sure we had
controllability in all six axis cuz we
lost in one. um, and then we were able
bypassing some flight rules because they
usually say that it has to be redundant.
uh, we we went in and tried to dock and
were successful. so that was great.
>> has it ever happened that some astronaut
has has like broken psychologically like
at one point they've just
maybe they were not able to take it. no,
i i mean i think the training is good
enough that we um we make sure we we
send everybody up that's has that those
tools in their tool belt, they'll be
okay. i mean, everybody understands
stress a little bit different and like i
said, that's why we do some of that
national outdoor leadership school. so,
you can understand that and you can see
that when you're with your other crew
mates. um you know, some people like
some time by themselves, some people are
very chatty, you know, when they get
stressed out. um, so there's it it's
going to happen. everyone's going to
it's going to happen at some point in
time. so, um, to a degree though,
everybody's in a box, in a controllable
box, you know. so,
>> have you cried in space?
>> oh, absolutely. absolutely. i miss
people and i missed my dog. so, of
course, i cried, you know, that yeah,
absolutely. there's there's been goods
and bads. i mean, and also like for for
really good things that have happened,
too. um, a friend of mine, her mom was
sick while we were in space and um, just
having those conversations, you know,
that's just, you know, your your
friends, your colleagues, if someone
told you you, you know, you're their
parent was sick and they having some
problems and, you know, that that's hard
to deal with. and so, you're you're
helping somebody else and you're um,
just being a friend, a shoulder that
somebody can like lean on. and the you
know the same thing happens like i get
frustrated with something and i'm
talking to my one of the crew mates up
there about something um or something
that's happening at home. yeah.
absolutely. yeah. everybody everyone has
everyone goes through normal emotions
here as as in there. yeah.
>> so what happens when you cry in space?
your tears don't fall.
>> yeah. everything water all around you
gets just sort of baldled up on you. um,
same with like when you're working out,
you get super sweaty because stuff just
gets like too much water everywhere.
so, you need a couple
tissues.
>> so, like you just start crying like is
it difficult? is it like just stuck?
>> it just will just make your eyes very
watery. like really watery.
you got to get rid of that though. so,
you can see
>> you'll be like a fish in an aquarium.
i i have to ask you a weird question
like what what's the worst part about
using a bathroom in space?
>> oh gosh, so much bad about it. the grav
no gravity assist. and so uh you uh for
me i
you know first of all just absolutely
just being able to do it first the first
thing right because you need to get rid
of everything at some point in time get
rid of all that bad stuff. so you have
to go to the bathroom. um, so doing it
first of all, um, get getting over the
fear of like going cuz you know it's not
going to fall down. so it's like, okay,
you just got to go and turn the hose on
and it will it'll take it away and don't
worry about it. so then and then the
number two part that's also adds a your
body's not used to it. so you have to
sort of get your body used to those
muscles to push everything out the right
way. um, and then and then it's just
sort of i wait i wait till i'm ready to
go and then i can just go.
i think that takes care of it. that
takes care of all the the wishy-washy
about it. if you can't really you have
to commit. you have to just get in there
and just go.
>> you also said i was reading somewhere
you said that people fart a lot up
there.
>> oh yeah. yeah. there's a lot. and i
don't know why exactly but it just
happens. everybody does because if it's
the preservatives in the food or
something like that. i'm not really sure
why, but everybody everybody does. and i
think after a while potentially people
get used to it and it seems like it
happens a little less for some people,
but sometimes for other people it just
keeps going on. it's terrible.
>> and then you have to live up in that
space for like days and it smells bad.
>> no, it it'll move. it'll move. we have
we have a pretty good ventilation
system. so stuff starts to move around
pretty quick. but if you if somebody
farted and you you're like
right behind them flying through the
module, you're going to fly right
through it.
>> how does space smell like?
>> uh it smells like us.
smells like the food that we eat and it
smells like us. but you know
like
interestingly enough i think it's not
that bad because like we had at some
periods of time 12 people on the space
station when generally seven um and
people are all working out people are
all eating and it to me it didn't didn't
smell that bad at all. i mean it was
just sometimes a little stronger when
some stronger types of food uh i
eventually got indian food for example
so you could smell that. um some things
with garlic, you know, obviously you
could smell that. um i i actually really
like the smell of garlic, so it's for me
it was fine. sometimes fish because we
had uh um like a lot of salmon or tuna
fish and so that's sticks around for a
little bit longer maybe, but it all ends
up dissipating.
>> so that that smell, what about the
sound? because iss it caks and moans,
right? like it just you can hear that
sound almost all the time.
>> um some areas it it also depends on what
the sunlight what how our orbit is in
comparison to the sun. so sometimes uh
when we're getting heated up quite a bit
there's some areas which sort the metal
sort of just pops and bends a little bit
and then that was reported obviously
somebody was like ah what happened and
so then um then we realized what the
situation is. so whenever there's like a
lot of sun on these parts are called a
pressurized mating adapter cuz they're
black on the outside. if you look at
different parts of the space station,
you'll see most of it's silver which is
sort of reflective. um but some of it is
um this black part and that's the part
that gets really hot and makes those
creeks and moans um and bumps. uh other
things beside for that are some of the
ventilation and you can hear stuff kick
on, start up and and shut down. that
happens periodically. obviously, you can
find it on the, you know, if you go into
the uh computer page where it has the
system that has that specific system,
you'll probably see what happens. have
you heard any scary sound? like what's
the scariest sound you've heard?
i'm just like childlike curious right
now at this point.
>> yeah. but
>> when you were stuck like for 286 days,
what's the most scariest sound you
heard?
>> um
gosh, i'm trying to think of something.
um i think valves moving, closing, and
opening. i'm i'm
i don't know. i'm i i am used to the
space station. the space station is sort
of like a second [clears throat] home.
so, uh, my first time up there, i'm
looking at it up on the wall. that's why
i'm looking. i'm trying to think of what
was, uh, what was scary. but
my first time there when i was in the,
uh, forward part of the space station
living there by myself with my two other
russian colleagues in the way back.
yeah, i got scared a little bit because
first time i'm like very hyper sensitive
to all of these switching of pumps and
fans and noises. one antenna out right
outside our former there was a crew
quarters there uh would turn every now
and the night or i think it was a camera
actually and sometimes the folks in
mission control would turn it so they
could see stuff and it was like right
outside the window so we could hear
inside um so i was asking a lot of
questions during that flight like what's
that what's that what's that but now
that you i've lived there for a long
time i feel like i know most of the
things that are happening or i can
figure it out like okay that that sounds
like a motor. that sounds like a valve.
so that must be coming from over here.
so this is this. so you know it's just
like as though you've like again lived
at your house for a long time. so you
get used to like when the furnace kicks
on or something and you know
like oh yeah that's happening again.
>> but when but for the first time you must
have heard at that time. did it scare
you? the first time it did because
particularly um when i was the like i
said the only person living in that part
of the space station and my other
american counterpart had gone home and
you know this is my responsibility was
this part of the space station. i was
like uhoh what what is that? what is
that? what is that? so i ended calling
the ground a couple times probably in
the in that time frame um if i remember
correctly just sort of is that normal?
is that normal? and they were like yes
yes don't worry about it. was
there any point where in all your time
in in space, was there any point where
you heard some sound and you're like,
"oh, this is it." like this like you
froze for a moment and like you got
scared?
>> no. um i i wouldn't say that. i think we
were all a little on edge one in this
latest flight when we had a satellite
below us in orbit um explode or
disintegrate or something and then there
was a bit of a debris field and so we
were woken up in the middle of the night
to all go to our own spacecraft. it's
called safe haven um because the space
they weren't sure whether or not the
debris would hit the space station. so,
we had about 45 minutes. and the funny
part about that is we all met at the
bathroom essentially one last time to go
to the bathroom on the, as i call it,
the big hotel in space because the
spacecraft are sort of like a little
camper. so, they don't have really good
bathrooms on the spacecraft. and so, it
was like, you know, take advantage of,
okay, i've got 45 minutes. what am i
going to do? i'm going to go to the
bathroom. i'm going to get some water,
say hug my friends, say goodbye. um,
that was a little bit surreal situation,
i think. not because of the bathroom.
the bathroom was just sort of funny. but
um as we were leaving uh three
spacecraft that have human beings that
are going to return to earth. so one
spacecraft's going to go and land in the
ocean, one's going to land around them
in the united states, one's going to
land in the desert in kazakhstan, one's
going to land in the desert um in the
united states. and we all sort of hugged
each other and we're like, "hopefully
i'll see you on earth."
you know, that was a little bit weird.
um, and i wasn't necessarily scared,
just sort of, you know, it made me stop
for a moment and go like, "wow, this is
this would be bad if we all had to leave
and then we leave the space station." we
had some things we had to do to make
sure the space station was in a safe
configuration as much as possible.
closing hatches, getting things ready.
um, so we didn't have time too much time
to sit around and think about it. but
for it for a second that flashed through
my mind as we were all there by the
bathroom and we're giving each other a
couple little hugs, saying goodbye. so
that was weird. that was uh that a
little unsettling i guess.
>> so you said this this time this flight
the last one was pretty pretty messed up
right when you got stuck at you when you
got stuck for 286 days.
>> um i don't know if it i would say messed
up is the right word. i would say it was
a little bit unpredictable in the
beginning like that whole summer was
like like unfortunately that was the
hardest part. i think the beginning part
uh for once after we launched and then
we got to the space station. we knew we
weren't going to come home as planned
but there was a lot of people on the
ground who were still working to we're
going to get home. we're going to come
home tomorrow. we're going to come home
tomorrow. we're going to come home
tomorrow. like wait a minute we all have
to understand what the problem is and
understand what the fix is and all that
kind of stuff but of course nasa doesn't
want to miss an opportunity so they
still had a lot of people turned on to
keep working through all this so that so
that meant there was questions coming to
up to us and we were answering questions
back and forth um when when it seemed
like the probability was pretty slim
that we'd coming back in the next you
know two weeks or month um we really
needed to get some answers to what
happened and understand that problem and
see if there was an adequate fix before
we would get back in that spacecraft. so
that whole time frame, you know, it's
hard to have patience, right? i think
all of us have to work on that. they say
patience is a virtue and it's very true
because it's sort of like when something
uncontrollable is happening. you just
had to have to sort of wait until the
appropriate answer is provided. that's
hard because you sort of want to go,
how's it going down there?
how's it going? have you have you solved
the problem yet? you know, like what
what is the answer? do we know yet? and
you you sort of have to give people some
time. so, uh we tried our best. i think
we were sort of annoying at some points
in time and asking the questions. um and
try and it's it's hard when you're up in
space. it's like, uh during covid when
we had zoom calls, it was really hard to
really, you know, get to the bottom of
some things, right? because you had to
just you couldn't see somebody. you
couldn't go and put your hands on
something. you're not right there. and
that's what it's sort of like all the
time on the space station. we aren't
there. i'm not seeing the test setup. i
i don't know what all the parameters
are. i listen to the the meetings, but
you know how it is in zoom calls, right?
sometimes your your mind is doing
something else when you should come back
to what's going on, right? so, it's a
little bit it was hard to really be part
of the the solution process. it was easy
to ask questions, but it's hard to be
part of the process. and so, that that
was a little frustrating. uh i think the
not so frustrating part uh at first but
then became frustrating was uh my
family. i think they were wonderful at
first like oh you know just come home be
safe. it's all that it's all good you
know like you know you're going to be
home soon you know you'll be home by the
falls it's all good you know. so then i
think the hard harder part of course is
like turning that and telling folks that
you're not going to be home for a little
longer. and so um you know at the by the
end i think we both butch and i before
even the decision was made we had an
idea that this is not going to happen.
and we knew the next time we'd come home
is with the next spacecraft. i mean this
is this is the process we've been living
for a long time. we know that every six
months there's a spacecraft that goes up
and there's a spacecraft that comes home
>> and they're not going to change that.
it's very expensive. it's a it's a
contract. it's a you know it's the
production of the spacecraft. so that's
how it's going to go. so as the sum
summer summer went on and it was getting
clear that we probably weren't going to
come home. um we knew it would be six
more months. so that's when like making
those phone calls like like around the
you know august time frame like uh i'm
not coming home for a little while.
we'll see you next year. but
um but i i think i'm very very
fortunate. my family was like hey it's
okay. you know don't worry about it.
have a good time. come home on a safe
spacecraft. and uh i wrote journals on
my first two missions and i started it
started it while we were up there for
the summer and my sister's like, "just
keep writing the journals cuz they're
fun to read." i'm like, "oh,
okay." and you know, and it's not just
fun, it's um i have a a group of people
that i sent those to. so, it it was able
i was able to take a lot of people along
on the journey with me and show them
through my uh photographs, not just
mine, but my crew mates photographs and
what we were doing up there, what it's
like to live in work in space. and, you
know, the aperture gets widened when you
have time to do that. so, i had i had a
lot of people following along with me
and uh you know, because i was doing
that, a lot of support from friends and
family. so, that was pretty awesome. so
that first time when you [snorts] when
you got this feeling that hey maybe
you're not going home and you're
definitely you're asking questions to
the ground support you're asking
questions but when you're alone you're
not asking questions and you're
impatient what going what's going on in
your head like now you know you're not
going to go home for a while.
>> oh yeah. so i mean right from the
beginning anyway um we had things to do
for our spacecraft while it stuck to the
space station. those test points just uh
working. so we did we just kept that
whole process, right? what we had
already planned to do for the those next
10 days and we had a little extra time.
so we're doing some little extra tests.
so that was great. and then after that,
you know, we had some free time
essentially, butch and i, of course, we
had we worked out. so it's how do we
help? how do i be part of the team? you
know, i need to occupy my time with that
type of stuff. i like doing that. i'm
i'm not gonna sit around and feel sorry
for myself. it's like, hey, there's 12
of us up here. we're going through a lot
of food. how about if i transfer the
food and put it in the right place? how
about if i work on the toilet because
we're going through the toilet supplies
faster than than we should. so, how can
i help out and just help the team? the
things that are like um you know,
standard things that you have to do like
take the trash out, you know, like all
the things that we normally do here at
home. there's there's specific things we
do that we train for. then there's
things that we've uh that you just have
to do on a routine basis. so, just try
to jump in and help the team as much as
possible.
>> you don't give yourself time. just just
keep yourself occupied all the time.
>> i i do generally try i i don't like to
hang out. just hang out. that's sort of
silly. specifically in space there's
there's a lot of things to do. it's like
never a dull moment. and then um
once it was sort of not not even then i
think just in general if there was free
time and somebody was working on an
experiment sometimes your hands are in a
glove box and you know then you need to
get something to do something. you got
to take your hands out of the glove box.
it's a little bit of a production or you
have uh protective equipment on because
you're working on something that's a
little bit dangerous and so then you're
trying to make a phone call that's hard
because you have to undo everything and
call back to the ground uh you know get
everything off of you. so when when for
me it was like, "oh, if that person's
working on the experiment, how about if
i'm i'm your right-hand man. if you need
something, just tell me. i'll go go over
here and get it for you." or, you know,
you're working on the toilet with all
that stuff on. i'll make the calls down
to the ground and then we could work
through all these things more
efficiently. so there's all of that to
do too, just to just to help out the
team. i mean, and that's what we're
trained to do, you know, just to help
out and that makes the that that makes
time go by for one thing.
it's not that time you really want time
to go by, but that also just helps
everybody out. and of course, the cool
thing that we did, well, we i think we
uh not not me in particular, but my crew
mates were really um great
photographers. [snorts] and so butch and
dawn, they ended up spending time like
setting up different cameras to take
some amazing time lapses and stuff like
that, too. so, there's always something
to do while you're up there.
>> was there a night where you lost hope?
>> no. never. no. no. no. no, that's so
funny that that's a question. it is
interesting that people said like and i
understand i guess i could understand
why just because of the press and the
narrative that was going on that we were
stuck in space.
>> um i i really wasn't scared because i
knew that there was hundreds of people
if not thousands that are working on
trying to figure out one what the
problem is, two can we fix it, and three
how do we get back? so all of that was
going on down on the ground. i know that
was all happening. not even for one like
moment you felt like maybe this is it.
i'm not going home.
>> no. um we actually even before uh our
spacecraft left, we designed some sort
of makeshift seats on the on the dragon
that was there. so we had planned seats
in case something happened, in case we
had another safe haven or something that
we had to get in our spacecraft because
of something that happened that was out
of our control. um we actually had a
seat in a spacecraft. it wasn't a great
seat. it did wasn't didn't have uh you
know air breathing connections in a
space suit, but we did still have a
seat. so, i mean, there's always there's
always something. there's we we always
plan on something. those seats needed to
be completed. those seats needed to be
completed before we told starliner to
leave.
>> wow.
>> yeah. [snorts]
>> never.
that's incredible. no, i mean i have a
lot of
>> because like from here down here like
all the press, all the news, all the
stuff that we read,
>> it it looked like like you're stuck like
you're there's no hope for you to come
back. there's nasa and boeing fighting.
they're like people just arguing
there stuff going on
>> and there are thousands of people making
content on you and like it just
>> it felt pretty scary and like genuinely
i've seen so much content where people
were worried.
>> everybody was wondering.
>> yeah. yeah. so i i like i said, i
understand why people would have that
impression just because of what the
narrative that was going on and the the
the miscommunications i think back and
forth. and i think u that's a little
potentially unfortunate. uh
>> but did your family ever feel like?
>> no. no. that's because we were in touch
all the time.
>> like i
>> you spoke to them after coming back and
did they have the same feeling that
>> absolutely. you probably saw my mom at
some point in time on the news and um
she was she was not worried cuz i mean
i'm talking to her. i'm telling her that
it's going to be okay. you know, it's
not not something they need to worry
about. the the the sort of what it what
i don't want to call it like really
makeshift, but the the the seats in the
dragon, that wasn't a great scenario.
and um we we have we talked about that
and there was a little bit uh folks were
not ready for that scenario like uhoh
like what now we have to accommodate two
more people in this dragon in case
there's a problem. how do we do it?
people came up with some great apollo 13
solutions with these makeshift seats and
stuff, but this is not the professional
right way to do it. and so now we
actually have a seat kit.
>> so if somebody um from another
spacecraft needs to transfer over to
this one, they'll be able to do that
with a better seat and we'll be able
actually have extra space suits. so
we'll be able to do that. probably have
uh we're working on i'm not sure the
status of it, but like being able to
connect the air um with another seat
with a t like a like a y cable. so, all
of those are great lessons learned cuz
that was i think the worst part. that
wasn't a great platform to land.
>> um somebody might have, you know,
>> we did our best that we could do. we
actually had a medical doctor who had a
lot of uh experience in this in this um
setup. so he did his best as he can to
try to come up with seats, but that
wasn't optimal.
>> it's not really the right way to do
stuff. so, um, like i said, that was
that was the most uncomfortable when we
were in those seats like i don't really
want to come home like this.
>> but, um, but the probability, right,
that that something would hit the space
station after we had already had
something happen was was pretty low. um,
so in my estimation, we we all take
risks.
>> yeah,
>> we're in this business because it's
risky. um not because but as as a
byproduct of this business it's risky
when you launch on a rocket uh when
you're in space and coming home you you
accept some of those risks um so this
was not out of the box i would say
>> you know when you're up there you you go
through multiple sunrises and sunsets in
a day right i think 16
>> yeah 16 sunrises and 16 sunsets in 24
hours some days would feel like very
short some days would be very long right
>> which one was the longest day for you
>> so when you're on an exp a deployment or
an expedition. i think time changes just
in your head, right? obviously, it
doesn't change in general, but it
changes as
>> once we got to that point where we we
knew we were going to stay for a little
bit longer,
>> it was almost like a reset. it was
almost like the start of the whole
expedition all over again because other
folks were leaving and then we were
going to be the normal seven.
>> so, at that point in time, it felt like
it's just starting. so, time is normal.
um somewhere in there uh there was a
thought that we might not come home
until may and somewhere around christmas
like oh that might be long we'll be
up here for a long period of
time and so that was that's when time
sort of slowed down a little bit and
also i mean it goes handinhand with
activity level also um we had just
finished doing a lot of science
experiments
>> we were just getting ready to do some
spacew walk stuff so we had a little bit
of a lull time um, and so time was a
little bit slow there. and then it
accelerates when activities happen
again. as soon as we started getting
ready for spacew walks, like a week and
a half, two weeks before the spacew
walks, things started going fast. um,
our first spacew walk was january 16th.
and then, so right after new year's, it
was like, oh my gosh, now time is like
accelerating. then we had another one at
the end of january. and then it was like
a breather for a second thinking, okay,
now we have a lot of time again. slow
down. and then they said, "okay, now
you're coming home in march
>> all of a sudden." and so then all a
sudden time really accelerated and
everybody was like, "let's getting one
last picture. let's do the, you know,
what did i want to do before i left?"
>> all of that was happening really quick.
so i think it goes in in in waves
depending on activity level, depending
on um the projection of when you might
be home.
>> um i'll go back to the very beginning.
the summer seemed a little bit long,
too. that seemed like it was dragging on
a little bit without decision.
>>
>> did you feel
did you feel lonely in one of those 286
days?
>> um i don't know about lonely. um there
was always people around. um
>> but family wasn't.
>> yeah, the family wasn't. um
the people that you end up living in
space with are like family though. they
become family. like i you probably seen
pictures of us during christmas time uh
thanksgiving and christmas where we uh
you know we we tried to connect with
family. we actually had like uh in the
united states there's a big parade
macy's day parade for thanksgiving. we
had that on a screen so we could watch
it. sort of makes that connection back
to home. and on those on holidays we
actually have some time off. so it's
nice to be able to call home and do
[clears throat] like a uh video
conference with people back at home too.
and you know do a tour, show people
around and um it's fun to see your crew
mates like at the dinner table and have
them wave to your family and see each
other's families and stuff like that
too. so i think when you get lonely you
have an opportunity to one make some
phone calls on the weekends or when you
have some free time, make some video
calls and just try to see what's going
on back at home and have folks back at
home try to see what's going on up in
space. um i reconnected with a lot of my
relatives um while i was up there which
was wonderful. some of my folks some the
capability is there right and we all
learned it from covid how to zoom and
how to be in do video conferences
sometimes not so successfully as
everybody's talking on top of each other
but um you know some of my
relatives here in india some of my
relatives uh you know all over the
country in united states would all get
on and then i could talk to them and
give them a tour around. it was that was
that was actually a lot of fun and um
makes it not feel like lonely. of
course, when you hang up, you're like,
"oh, you know, i wish i was down doing
this." or, you know, when somebody's
telling you some of the fun things that
they're doing, of course, you wish you
were there
>> being part of that. but then you pinch
yourself for a second and you go, "oh my
god, i'm living up in space. this is so
cool. look, like go to the window for a
second and see how beautiful it is." i
mean,
>> i i really wasn't that lonely, honestly.
not at all. no. no. i miss my dogs
mostly. was there so you you never had
the loneliest night in space? you don't
remember?
>> not really. maybe i i feel
like i'm a robot answering these
questions, but um but you know, i mean
that's like i think one of the things
that i would like people to realize like
this is an amazing opportunity when you
have an i mean even uh i think about
when i was had deployments at sea. you
know, you get up in the morning. maybe
it's an attitude. i don't know. but you
get up in the morning, you go outside
and you see some some of the most
beautiful sunrises that you can ever
imagine in the middle of the ocean on a,
you know, deployment. same thing. you
get up in space and you go to the window
and you don't know what you're going to
see. i mean, every day is like, "oh,
what's there?" you know, it's a surprise
or it's nighttime or what does lightning
look like or whatever. it's just
incredible. and you you also know that
this is not going to last forever.
you're going to come home at some point
in time. i mean, i think that's always
on the back of my mind. i was like, this
is a chance. even on my first flight, i
was sad to leave. i was like crying like
when i left because i was like, i don't
know if i'll ever have this opportunity
again. and it's so incredible.
>> what are the kind of dreams you get in
space? is it different?
>> oh, interesting. my father asked me the
same question because he was a neuro was
a neuroscientist and um you know,
sometimes you dream about i think you
dream about sometimes experience, right?
so it was like dreaming about where you
are, what you're doing. and then it gets
a little bit crazy as all dreams do,
right? so they're not reality. but but
like i was dreaming that i was in space.
i was dreaming that i was doing spacew
walks. i was also dreaming that i was
back at home. like it was so interesting
that you could dream about both of
those. and i feel like when i've come
back to earth, i've also dreamed about
being in space as well, cuz i've had
that experience. it's it seems like it
wears off though, which is unfortunate.
as the farther and farther you get away
from your space flight, you sort of come
out of that. like it's like i don't
dream as much about space anymore. i
used to when i first got back quite a
bit.
>> but is it different when you dream here
on earth and when you dream in the
space? like is it the kind of dreams do
you dream of falling? do you dream of
>> all the same. i think the same in that
regard, but you based on experience.
yeah. yeah. i mean, i wasn't fall. if i
was dreaming about space, i wouldn't
fall.
>> yeah. exactly.
>> yeah. [snorts]
>> so, there there's nothing different
about it. do you hear like different
kind of sounds? because you're always
constant in an environment which is
either very silent or like very noisy.
>> oh, it's noisy all the time.
>> all the time. i think the most the
biggest impression though is as you're
getting ready to fall asleep um before
you're asleep, you see like little like
little pieces of light with your eyes
closed and it's dark. um and the reason
i guess it's it's
a radiation i think that's coming and so
that it's not like what your eyes are
seeing. it's some radiation that's
hitting some part of your brain which is
triggering a vision of this little light
flashes which is a little bit bizarre.
um
i i don't wouldn't say it's scary, but
it's a little unnerving because then
you're just like what kind of radiation
am i getting up here and i'm not
protected. you know, that's that's um
some of those long-term effects of being
in space and are i think in just in
general health-wise a little worrisome.
so um you want to protect yourself as
much as possible.
>> so what's the health cost you pay when
you come back? so like so i mean
initially when you come back you're
you're not feeling very good but that
that goes away pretty quick.
>> what are you feeling like the moment you
land on earth? yeah.
>> back after like 286
>> for me nauseous like a little sick and
it didn't help that this time we landed
in the water and then at you know
everybody was concentrating on the
dolphins that were there um outside of
the capsule. but if you look at all the
while the dolphins are swimming or when
we landed we went all the way over and
then back up again. and it was funny
because the thought in my head was like,
"oh no, if we turn over all the way
upside down, that's not going to be
good." but, you know, it was just sort
of like casual thought like that, like,
h, that's not going to be good. and then
we came back up and we're sort of
bobbing for a second like a cork. like,
so if people don't feel good when
they're on a boat, think about it that
way.
>> um, you feel a little bit nauseous and
you're going to feel nauseous anyway.
for me, i always feel a little nauseous
when i come back. the neurovvestibular
system has not been working while you're
up in space. it sort of shut down and
you have other feelings of orientation
while you're up there. you your the way
our we evolve our inner ear for balance
is not is not needed while you're up in
space because gravity's not affected on
it. so so anyway when you come back all
of a sudden gravity's a player and then
you for me i felt pretty nauseous for
like uh 24 hours and what's something
that's uh provocative as you say as they
say is like getting out of your spacuit
when you put it over your head and pitch
your head up like that. um that really
makes you feel a little sick. so, we get
out of we are getting out of the
spacecraft and we get out with on a like
a sort of like a a little seat uh with
people helping us because there's a big
hole in the in the spacecraft for where
the cargo is and so nobody wants to trip
and fall getting out first of all
because you're not feeling too good and
then they just take us to the back where
we can get out of our space suits. um,
right after that though, once you're out
of your suit and you uh not feeling like
you're going to throw up, you can stand
up and um we walked up the stairs to
where the helicopter was and took us out
of there.
>> so that still nauseous for me for about
24 to 48 hours is the big thing. and
usually you'll see people with somebody
helping them, supporting them, just
because all the little balance muscles
that you use here on earth that you
don't even realize and the small muscles
in your neck, all of that has to get
recharged again.
>> and so that takes for me, you know,
realistically to get all the way back
about a month. and we work with our
physical trainers to for some certain
exercises. they and they give us tests
along the way to see how we're doing,
see how we're improving. and it's
actually pretty cool to see your body
like come back to human self again, you
know, to earthly self again.
so
>> so you feel you like when you come back
for that month when you're trying to
acclimatize, adapt to the earth again,
do you feel like things are falling or
like if you pick up the pen and it's
just going to go like that? like do you
get these things?
>> you um
>> because i saw a video of eating, you
know, the liquid pineapple juice. that i
saw that
>> you it happens for a little bit but you
you'll you'll learn pretty quick that or
gravity is the you know predominant
force in on this on this planet so you
can't get away from it so it's
here
>> it's not but you learn like pretty
quickly but do you
>> like you'll do something stupid first
like i'll just drop this bottle like oh
okay never mind so you do you do one
thing and then it's then it's like
you're back yeah
>> and is [clears throat] it like more
difficult for you to book after you come
back for
>> no, no, not really. it's not difficult.
you're just going to potentially fall
over. so, so i mean just
because of balance. so, you need that's
why somebody usually helps. i was just
looking at the
>> even that month.
>> oh, no, no, no, no. just just for like
two days or something. yeah. yeah. and
um and usually i we don't drive for a
little bit just cuz you know you're just
reaction time might be a little bit slow
and so somebody will take us drive us to
where we need to go for the first week
or
>> and all your senses do do they work
differently when you come back like the
sound the smell? uh i think uh
enlightened to what's here on earth.
like i remember distinctly on my first
mission we landed in the desert in
california and the s when as soon as i
opened the hatch the smell of dirt and
sage cuz there's a lot of the sage plant
there that smell was so predominant like
wow like i could just we're back on a
plant you know on planet earth again so
it was it was wonderful it was nice cuz
you things that you miss like all of
that that and like wind those are like
things that you really like oh my gosh i
feel this and being [clears throat] in
the first time in a shower feels really
really good. not just not cuz you're
necessarily dirty because we don't
really get dirty up there. we just sweat
and then you know take a a sponge bath.
um but just to feel something falling on
you that's really nice. and one of it's
funny one of the one of the other things
that um don pettit and i had this
conversation like you know what i really
miss is a sink. like just to go
someplace and put your hands under wash
your hands and then wash your face.
those things you just miss versus just
squirting water and then rubbing it on
yourself, you know. so, i don't know.
there's just different funny things like
that that get little triggers. yeah.
>> you when you came back, the first thing
you ate was the wedge grilled cheese
sandwich.
>> oh, yeah. yeah. absolutely.
>> because it reminded you of your father.
>> yes. yes. well, it's funny. i had that
before i flew on my first flight for
sure from my father and i was thinking
about coming it coming back up again and
i was like h this will be smooth
won't be hard to get if i
throw up and when i came back to earth
specifically this time uh over the last
couple years my husband has started to
make homemade bread and uh i couldn't
think of a better thing to eat than a
grilled cheese with his homemade bread
was like putting those two together h so
good
>> what did did it taste like? did it
remind you of your father?
>> oh, yeah. yeah. remind of my dad, of
course, just just just because he ate
grilled cheese all the time and uh just
it was yummy cuz we didn't we don't have
really good bread, you know, we have
little teeny loaves of bread up there
and tortillas and so having really good
bread and having cheese, which is which
like a little bit of a luxury in space.
we get it every now and then um but we
don't have it on a regular basis up
there. we have some canned cheese on the
russian side, but um just every now and
then we get a specialty like a chunk of
cheese, but we don't really have cheese
all the time.
>> you you were close to your father,
right?
>> yeah. yeah, absolutely.
>> what do you miss about him the most?
>> um i think i miss just going for a walk
with him. that's uh that was always
nice. i mean, he was he was one of these
types of people who could really go for
a walk and observe um everything around
him. and not that he's talking about it
all the time, but he might just stop you
for a second and then tell you something
and just, you know, just having a nice
conversation with him.
>> you know, you you you're so
accomplished. you've done so many
things. and somebody asked you about
your father and you said that your
accomplishments are relatively way
easier than your father. like your
father is much more accomplished. why
did you say so?
>> oh, i i absolutely believe that. you
know, one, you know, he did a lot of
those things, his life, accomplishments
in his life on his own, like just went
out there and did it. i feel like i've
been sort of guided uh by having a
military career and then, you know,
>> not necessarily being told, but like,
hey, this is the opportunity or this is
the what you're supposed to be doing.
and so, i'm just doing things. and then
then some advice from from some friends
like i mentioned about becoming an
astronaut. um, that's all just sort of
it seemed like it was easy and it was
piled on each other. not necessarily
easy, i shouldn't say it that way, but
like it was obvious when things became
obvious. whereas my for my dad, i think
about somebody making the decision,
trying to make the decision, what do i
want to do when i grow up? i have to um
if i want to go to school, i have to
have really good grades or i'm not going
to get in school. you know, i i want to
go to medical school. it's was very com
competitive. it is very competitive here
in india. it's in competitive in the
united states too, but i i would say
>> uh more so here. and um and he didn't
have his parents to help him or to guide
him. he just decided he was going to do
it and decided like this is how i have
to live. i i'm going to go to boarding
school. i'm going to go to medical
school. i'm going to somehow figure out
a way to come to the united states and
practice medicine there and see how that
is and decide whether or not i'm coming
back or going. and i mean, i have my
brother over there, but that's it. i
don't know what this journey is going to
be like. i mean, for us, we like get on
a plane and we go someplace across the c
around the globe or on a spacecraft and
he had to get on a boat. that whole
experience and part of the reason he ate
cheese was cuz the first time he ate
cheese was on the ship that he was
coming over here. he didn't know what it
was. he was like, "what is this
plasticky thing?"
but he um so after that he liked cheese
and then he ate grilled cheese because
he didn't really know
>> what to make and how to make stuff when
he came to the united states right away
until he got some friends and you know
gathered with them and then was able to
make some other food. but grilled cheese
was his go-to because it was easy. he
knew it was vegetarian. it
was good.
>> do you still measure your success
against his? i no i just i just when
people ask about it i just i think to
myself like oh gosh don't make such a
big deal about it because there's other
people who have done some incredible
things um and had to plan it out do it
all on their own and so that's why i i
feel like his accomplishments were so
much more um brave and courageous than
mine.
>> and you you you don't take compliments
well do you?
well, i feel like i i i know myself,
right? and i'm not extraordinary. i'm
just somebody who has put their head
down and and done some stuff and has
didn't take no for an answer. but i'm
not extraordinary. and i say that to you
because i think there's many more young
astronauts out there. and i i they'll
probably be doubting themselves at some
points in time. and that's okay. but
that they can do it. you know, this is
not an extraordinary feat.
wow, you're extraordinary. i
don't know why you think that, you know,
you're extraordinary and i'm sure like
99.99% people will feel about that.
>> oh gosh.
>> probably like 01% somewhere thinking
otherwise.
>> no, i i'm ser but i i feel i i mean i
honestly uh feel this way like if i
could do these things, anybody could do
these things. i had a hard time in
college, you know, and i
there was subjects in high school that i
still had hard times with, you know,
like people are are they can do it.
we're smart. i mean, i think sometimes
we just don't tap our potential.
>> yeah. you know, because you're talking
about your father, i always feel like
i like asking this question, so i want
to go ahead and ask you, what do you
wish your father would have seen in you
before he left?
>> oh, wow. um
umh
that's what
i i remember him saying one time i'll
just i don't know if i'm going to answer
your question exactly but i remember him
saying i was after like my first flight
or something um maybe my second flight
and we were talking about space and he
goes he goes you know a lot about space
and i said dad i know a lot about space
because i live there like of course i
know a lot about space. i would say you
know like i grew up in nita
massachusetts right i would say you know
a lot about nita massachusetts we grew
up there so like it's the
same type of thing which was just sort
of funny for me to have him uh say that
which was and and then we we had a good
laugh about it. um, but
i think i you know it's funny. i think
after i became a a test pilot and an
astronaut, he was you know we were he
was doing his life, i was doing my life
after i graduated from college. so i
don't think he knew exactly and my mom
either what i was doing. um, they all
came to my test pilot school graduation
and i think it was it was enlightening
for them to see all of the aircraft that
we were flying and what we were doing
because before that i was in the navy
and i was deploying and going away. um,
and so i don't think it was tangible
because it was so out of like the realm
of what uh folks in my family were doing
at that time. um, like exactly what
we're doing. but when they saw all the
different aircraft and helicopters and
and heard a lot about that, i think uh
both of both of my parents at that point
in time were a little surprised that i
went down that path. like they knew that
was going on, but they really didn't see
it until that time because all the
aircraft were there, all my classmates
were there. and then as when i became an
astronaut, i think there was a little
bit of the same thing. it seems
different from everything our family was
doing. so, it's hard to really put your
hands on it. um, but when they all went
to my first launch to see a space
shuttle launch out of florida, i think
that like was an eyeopening experience
for everybody like, "wow, this is this
is serious. we launch on rockets." my
sister who said such a funny thing. i
called her once i got to the space
station. i said, "what was your
impression? what was you?" because i
like to hear what people's impressions
are. like, what was it like? she goes,
"oh my god, it was nighttime launch,
too." she goes, "oh my god, there was so
much fire."
and i said, "yeah, that's what's at the
bottom of rockets. it's fire. that's how
they go." you know, and uh
but it was it's funny because i think at
that point in time, people realized what
this is all about. and i think my father
at the same time figured out like, "wow,
she's actually going to space."
>> and um i i think
he was the one who gave me the bhagavad
gita. he was the one who gave me the
upnids on my second flight. and um i
think he was just like you're you're you
have a unique experience and uh stay
grounded
live and live in the moment.
>> you you carry bhagat gita and lord
ganesh till with you right because your
father gave it to you. so does it still
feel the same or does it feel different
now?
>> um
>> like when you carry bhagat gita with you
now when your now that your father's not
with you.
>> yep. yeah. i mean it's a little a little
piece of him is with it all. of course.
i mean that's that's why i'm i'm indian,
right? that's that's why that's because
of him is i think a lot half at least
half of my personality is because of him
and and understanding of
the universe around us is because of
him.
>> so what part of it feels different now?
um
um since he's not here, uh it's it seems
like he's part of all of that, which is
sort of interesting thought process. i
didn't think about that before, but like
since he's not with us, he's part of all
of that uh that you feel and you study
is in the universe.
>> he's not here just to be like next to me
to tell me about the plants and the
trees and the birds. he's part of all of
that. nice. and what specific trait you
would say you inherited from your
father?
>> um
>> is there any because you've said that
you got your slovenian stubbornness from
your mother.
>> oh yeah, you've heard it. yeah. yeah.
yeah. i think uh from my father i'm very
lucky to be to have the ability to stop
and just
observe around me. uh, i like this one
picture don pettit took of me in the
koopa because um, and my friend tracy
took one that was like this, too. it's
it's nice to just have some moments of
time, not when you're taking a picture
or trying to do something, when you can
just stop and look at what's going on
around you. i did not get that from my
mom. my mom is very, very, very active,
but my father had the ability to just um
be one with with the world for a moment.
uh maybe it's on a walk, but maybe it's
sometimes just hanging out.
>> did any part of you change after he's
gone?
>> you know,
um
i miss him physically, you know, cuz
it's always nice to just be able to talk
to somebody, but at the same time, you
know, his passing was very peaceful and
i feel like he was
he was ready to go. it was funny. it was
very interesting when he passed away. we
uh my sister and i were just coming in
to see him and he just passed and he was
i think he was just in a peaceful place
cuz he was he was up and around maybe a
half an hour before we had were there
and so i think he was just sort of like
it's my time to go to the next place and
it'll be okay.
>> so that made us feel okay too. mhm.
>> and you so when you carry lord ganesh
with you, you said like it's been your
good luck charm. it's been always there
all around your house. you always
carried with you. do you see your father
in that energy now?
>> um
>> with lord ganesh like
>> not not [clears throat] as a person, you
know, like it's funny like i saying it's
his it was his time to leave and and
move on to the next thing, right? so uh
as i see that as part of who i am
because of him. m
>> but you don't feel like there's some
invisibly he's watching you from
somewhere.
>> oh absolutely i know i know he's
watching yeah his his spark is there as
he would say his spark is there watching
me all the time
>> you know because we talking about your
father and lord ganesh and bhagwat gita
i have to ask you the most obvious
question is
>> how does india look like from the space?
yeah. so,
india uh is sometimes tricky to get a
picture of cuz it's a little bit hazy at
times.
>> um but sometimes it's awesome. um so it
just depends on one the weather. uh but
there's now and i don't remember this
from last like a trail to come to see
india because there's fishing boats in
the gulf of arabia off this off of the
coast of india on the west side. there's
different parts of different fishing
boat uh sections in the world, but it's
definitely on the west coast of india.
um, and it's so weird because i thought
to myself, how could these be fishing
boats? what how could i see a boat?
there's no way. cuz like in the daytime
sometimes you can't see the boat, but
you can see the wake cuz the wake goes
on for miles. but they must have amazing
lights. and for whatever reason, if
they're looking into the water or if
they're trying to attract fish or
whatever they're trying to do, i don't
know, but you can see these big plots of
fishing boats all over the place. so,
that's new for nighttime and you can see
that coming in. um, and then at night,
which is india is pretty spectacular cuz
the cities are lit up. it's white lights
and all those lights seems to be like
connected. it's almost like when i see
it, i think of like nerves like pictures
people have of when they like tell you
like there's a nerve problem and these
nerves are connected d like all of this
little connections. india is like that.
it's like very connected with lights at
night. so that's that was one big
impression this time that i didn't
remember from last time. last time uh
more so um looking at india in the
daytime and the colors are amazing. the
himalayas are absolutely amazing. and
you can you can sort of see where it
like i've said this before, it feels
like where the plates bumped up into
each other and and made the you know
made the mountains. um and then the
coast is obviously cool because you can
see particularly on the east side uh
when the rivers run off how they
interact with the water on that side,
the different colors and swirls from
that side. and then at one point in time
i took a picture of the interaction
between india and how do we call it
nowadays? sri lanka.
>> yeah.
>> um um and
it seems like there's a connection
there. i'll just say that.
>> i'll say that. i think i think that
picture took a there was a little bit of
a discussion about that picture, but it
it looks like there is you know they
absolutely could be connected.
>> yeah, there must be some
>> there's something there.
>> there's something connected.
maybe we leave it out there like that.
>> yeah. yeah. leave it out there.
>> what's and when you look out of the
window, okay,
this is my sci-fi brain talking, okay?
so, just don't doubt me on this
question, but i'm still going to be
what's the strangest thing you've seen
in the space which you think is going to
be hard to believe for people here?
>> oh, interesting. um,
uh, two different things that were
different or have been different. um
there's a lot of communication
satellites up there now, starlinks.
>> and so you can this time uh 10 from 10
years ago, they fly across the the view
like you see the stars of course as
they're coming, but they fly across the
view which is like whoa, what where did
these all come from? and um there's
which is great because there's a lot of
communication now on earth because we
have these constellations of satellites.
but there is it was an impression like
there is a lot of stuff in orbits around
the planet. um the other thing which was
really cool this time uh and we were
able it's hard to see with the naked eye
but we have some really great cameras
and we were able to take pictures not me
in particular but don pettit and and
matt dominic of blue jets and red
sprites coming out of a thundercloud
like energy coming up. um, it's out
there because nicole ayes took some
after we left, too. and i think those
are posted. um, just amazing that we
were able to take pictures of energy
coming out of a thundercloud and out of
lightning.
>> wow.
>> yeah, that was pretty amazing. so,
there's there's just and i had no idea
those things existed. people knew they
were existing, but it was hard to
actually document it. and now the
cameras that we have, we can we can
document that. so, all of that's pretty
pretty amazing. don was able to also
with his camera because these are things
you can see. you can see the milky way.
like it's amazing to see so many
billions of stars out there, but he was
and it's hard to take good pictures,
pinpoint pictures of stars because we're
moving so fast.
>> mhm. [clears throat]
>> he rigged up with a little gear box, uh,
something to copy the orbital rate as we
were flying so he could pinpoint the
pictures, pinpoint the stars, and then
the lights on the earth were a little
bit blurred. that's backwards of how um
normal cameras or normal setups would
would would do it. so those pictures are
out there also from don pettit if
anybody gets a moment to take a look on
the internet.
>> incredible pictures. so i i had the
luxury of being up there with some
amazing photographers that were able to
do that.
>> do you do you believe there's some life
out there?
>> absolutely. with those billions of stars
out there, you know, we're just a little
planet around one star. so yeah, there's
life out there. um, i mean there's life
on earth in places we never thought they
could be. right at the bottom of the
ocean with the thermal vents that are
coming up, there's light things that
live without uh great pressure without
light um in the darkness. so yes, and
strange gases um that we
found actually on our second spacew
walk, butch did some swabbing on the
outside of the spacecraft. there's
microbes that live on the outside of the
space space station. yes, they're
probably from us because they're in the
vicinity of where there's some gas vents
whenever we vent overboard. um, so sure,
they probably came from us because
they're right there. but what it proves
to us is something can live in the
vacuum of space with the heat heating
and cooling. so that's more,
you know, you know, proof in the pudding
that something can live out there. um,
even as close as uh the moons of
jupiter.
>> mhm.
>> uh, thinking that one of them, at least
europa, i think it is, is has water on
it. uh, it' be nice to drop a spacecraft
over there and drop a rover through the
ice and see what's going on. and there's
some plans to do that as well. but if
there's water, there's probably
something. um, there's obviously, you
know, evidence of water on the moon and
on mars or some type of liquid, right?
so there might be might have been
something on mars at least that we could
potentially go see if we go there.
>> so
>> do you think there's some species around
there?
>> um there might be. who knows? who knows?
we have to go and see.
>> you believe in the possibility but you
don't know.
>> yeah. yeah. i mean i don't think it's
humans for example. but but there's some
type of some forms of life potentially.
>> interesting.
>> but potentially.
>> okay. i've like last two three questions
for you.
>> yeah. and one of them is tell me the
most beautiful thing you've seen.
>> i i mean i really think the aurora and
one of the really huge benefits of us
being up there all of the summer of 24
this year also or last year in 25 but we
weren't there thankfully. but
uh in 24 this summer we had some
incredible uh aurora because of solar
activity and uh such that the aurora
came down. usually you look out the
window and you can see it over there
like you're looking and like, "oh my
god, that's amazing. look at it. it's so
great." we're taking pictures out the
side so you can sort of see the earth.
this time we flew essentially through
the aurora. it was low enough. our
orbits 51.6 so it came down somewhere
in that vicinity and it was amazing.
like not only like what you typically
see of green lights, but you also we
also saw pinks and then some purple
which means you know that was stronger
and there was interacting with other um
um elements uh in our in in the vicinity
of our magnetic field. so pretty
impressive and humbling when you think
about it. first time i saw aurora was on
my first flight on a spacew walk and um
it was below me and i was like whoa, you
know, thinking like um the energy that's
out there in the universe is just
incredible and something that we could
we we worry about energy here on this
planet all the time, but there's more
out there that we could never even think
about harnessing. so, you know, how do
we how would we do that, right? it's
amazing. so, um that was just
mind-boggling and incredible. yeah.
>> interesting.
>> yeah. before
you set a foot on your first flight, you
saw what happened with kalpna chabla and
then she's she was an incredible mo
woman. absolutely. inspiration for all
of us and role model. yes.
>> yeah. like she was she was a friend of
yours. she's a role model
>> and you saw
>> her death.
>> uhhuh.
>> did that event change anything you
>> or the way you look at death and life?
because you were taking the same kind of
path and she's a friend and she's a role
model. she's the first indian-american
woman to do all of these things and
you're going to be the next. so, did
that change anything you about death?
>> i think the not about death, but about
the i think the desire to explore more.
uh i know that um her and her crew
mates, you know, that's was in their
heart. i mean, they were doing some
really fundamental science to help us
with the space station and understand
how we do how the processes work so we
can make do even more incredible
experiments um while we're up there and
then continue this fact of us being able
to live for longer in space and then how
we can move on. i mean i knew i knew all
of them and a couple of them very well
really good friends and not only kulpna
but um that was like what was in their
heart you know dave brown was a really
good friend part probably one of the
reasons i came to nasa was because i
knew him a long time beforehand and he
was one of those people who was like
sunny this job is for you and so i knew
in his heart i know in kulpna's heart
that this is what they wanted to do so i
think it g gave us even more of a
feeling of like we really want to
continue this. we've got to do this in
their memory. and same with challenger.
and that's why we continue to fly the
space shuttle after challenger. like, we
can do this and we can do this better
and we're going to learn more about
this. we're not going to let their um
you know, situation put a stop on it.
they wouldn't want that. so, we're just
going to we're going to press harder. um
and we i think we all know that there's
risks involved in this, but we've
learned so much from each misstep. i
would say we learned from uh challenger,
we learn of course we learned from
apollo 1 and foremost the russians have
learned there a lot of things from soy
use issues as well and we've learned
from challenger. we've learned from
colombia. we learned from starlininer. i
mean one of the like the i think the
best things about starlininer is
some of those thrusters are on other
spacecraft. how do how do we now we need
to understand a little bit more about
this and make those spacecraft better?
and what are the questions we didn't ask
and we can ask those questions for the
next spacecraft that we're we're going
to fly. so, um it didn't scare me. it
got me ready ready to go and and
>> happy to explore in their name.
>> and so, when you're strapping yourself
in the rocket in that moment, are you
like super optimistic or you are going
with a thought that you're prepared to
die? whatever happens, we'll take care
of it.
>> i think we're not super optimistic and
not prepared to die. either one of those
things. i think we're ready for uh i
mean it was sort of like come on. it's
like a game, right? it's sort of like uh
like at the beginning of a football
match, right? and everybody's pumped up
and they're ready to take on the
responsibility of whatever action's
going to happen, right? they're ready. i
think that's how we felt at least, you
know, butch and i getting into we're
ready for this. we're ready. let's go.
we know we know what we can handle. we
know what we're supposed to do. like
let's just let's go. bring it on.
>> there's no other thought.
>> yeah. no, no. it's
>> but you do those vr uh simulations,
right? in that, do you do you see
yourself maybe never coming back or
doing something or no? you're like just
never thought.
>> oh, no. like there's a there's a vr
thing that we do for uh this backpack
that we have on on the back for our
spacew walks, right? that is uh to me
scary because there's you know you have
to practice a little bit to figure out
how to fly or with the orbital mechanics
to get yourself back to the space
station. and when you're learning this
um for me i wasn't a natural right from
the get-go. i i figured it out and i
have a plan. but what so the first time
i did it you know i think i missed the
space station by like inches and you
can't do anything because you're out of
gas and like ah and you float away and
that would be bad. um it leaves an
impression on left an impression on me
like you're just sitting here with
goggles on and you're sweating because
this is you're working trying to figure
out how to solve this problem and
nervous that you're going to float away.
um such that there's just probably 99.9%
i will never uh get myself in that
situation. i can't say 100% but whenever
i got to a work site a tether down a
second tether down okay now i can take
my hands off like it left
such an impression that you would really
never want to get yourself in that
situation like i don't ever want to have
this happen to me never
>> sure
>> so
>> the last question yeah
>> is what's one question you wish people
would have asked you
>> oh uh um oh i so my biggest takeaway
from this flight was really not there
there's lots of technical uh things that
we learned right like i just mentioned
that we could pass on and make the next
flight better for make make the hardware
better ask the right questions maybe do
the engineering process better right all
of that is huge lessons learned but the
biggest lesson learned is when i came
back and again we could talk about the
press and how maybe the narrative was a
little blown out of proportion in my in
my um perspective but uh people would be
like, "i'm so glad you came back."
people i don't know. i i don't know even
what country they're from. i don't know
what nationality they are. i don't know
what ethnicity they are. i don't know
what religion. i don't know what
politics there are from all over the
world. we're like, "i'm so happy you're
back. you know, welcome home.
thankfully, we're praying for you. we
were thinking about you." whatever. you
know, and my overall lesson learned from
this is like people are good. people are
nice. and as human beings, we we care
about each other. and it seems like that
gets lost with a lot of distractions and
noise that are going around. and we just
need to listen to each other cuz people
are good.
>> does it get you overwhelmed when you
talk about it?
it bums me out a little bit because
i had to go through this process to see
that and that's why i keep talking about
it because i hope that other people
don't have to go through a process. i i
hope we would just stop and listen to
each other and realize how good human
beings are.
>> yeah.
>> i i i can see your eyes getting teared
up.
>> yeah. no, human beings care about each
other and we forget that. we fight over
stupid things which is unfortunate.
well, thank you so much for doing this.
it was an honor to speak to you, but it
was incredibly good. we just need thank
you so much for doing this.
>> thank you so much. then thanks to your
team. you guys are very patient.
>> hello.
>> hi.
>> how are you?
>> hello, raj.
>> hi, raj. nice sunny. nice to meet you.
>> nice to meet you.
>> hi, guys.
>> how are you?
>> we're honored to have you.
>> oh, thank you so much.
>> what do you read? what do you usually
read? i have read just mostly technical
stuff more more recently. last
10 years of my life have sort of been
all consumed by this flight. so um
um so that and and commercial crew so i
haven't had a lot of just nice reading.
i'm reading a funny little book right
now about i got it as a gift from
slovenia about weird little slovenian
things which is fun. but i actually more
so like uh what is it called?
>> like fictional history. which book were
you reading? i'm interested in this.
>> uh like about um einstein.
>> mhm. [clears throat]
>> um
>> and then there was some other other
ones. um
>> but i haven't read them for a little
while. but anyway, i liked reading about
the people. yeah.
>> thank you so much for watching this
podcast till the end. please let us know
in the comments what all did we do right
so that we can improve and keep doing
that better and what all did we do wrong
so that we never repeat it. and at the
same time, please give us suggestions of
who's the next guest that you want to
see on the podcast. and don't forget to
share this episode with at least one
person who will get some insights
because one conversation is enough to
give people enough ideas to change their
lives. i'll see you next time. until
then, keep figuring out and also don't