yucky
i remember reading this thing about
google offering you $100 million not to
quit. not today, but 15 years ago, which
was a lot of
money. what is it? i like that you're
waiting for the question and not
reacting.
i want to see where you're going to take
this.
we started over. it's rolling.
okay. can you define neil waves? what do
you think it is? cuz i've tried and i'm
i'm kind of like conflicted. i don't
know if the messaging has gone out in
the manner that it should. but what is
waves really? um well my understanding
is it's really the first time ever i
think not just here in india but really
anywhere in the world where there's been
such a um kind of meeting of everybody
who has an interest and a stake in the
creative industries uh with really the
purpose of um finding ways to accelerate
it further certainly for india and
indian culture and indian creators. um
but i really think that it will have a
global impact as a result. um and i
think you know kind of the the insight
for me at least um was that the
recognition you know certainly on part
of of the government but i think uh the
creative industries in india in general
the recognition that um you know india
really is at the cusp of being a true
creator nation and i get to see it from
my vantage point at at youtube. um i see
it in the numbers. i see it obviously in
everybody that i interact with whenever
i'm visiting india. but i think um
that's the big vision. and i think
what's really interesting about it is
it's it's a mix of everything. there's
obviously the cultural and creative
aspect of it, but there's also the
business aspect of it. what's required
to be a successful creator? there's also
the collaborative aspect of it. there's
the private government partnership
aspect. and i think waves, at least in
my understanding, is trying to put all
those pieces together.
content creators and
politics. do you think they're more
they're getting more ingrained than they
have ever been? um, well, the way i
think about it is did you vote
republican or democrat? did i i'm not
going to get into all all my pieces.
i've been i've
i've voted on both sides for a very long
time. let's put it let's put it that
way. you're asking so you're not asking
an india question. you're asking in
general. i would say
um it really goes back to the fact that
um you know a place like youtube is
uh yes it's a place for content creators
and creators and youtubers and most of
what we all consume on on youtube is is
entertainment or learning or what have
you. but really, it's a it's an
information platform. and our mission
statement is to give everyone a voice
and show them the world. and so, if you
think about that, what happens on
youtube is a reflection of what's
happening in the world. and vice versa.
and so the connection therefore between
creativity on youtube and politics or
elections or societal conversations
um in if you look at it in that context
shouldn't be a surprise and that's what
we see in the us whether you're talking
about you know the republican party or
the democratic party um and it's what we
saw here in the elections the gigantic
elections that happened here in in india
last year and you know just happened in
canada yesterday and really all over the
world. so, if i were to make the
assumption that trump
utilized content creators better in the
previous
election, does the platform that houses
most of the content creators get to
sway what should be heard since you
control the narrative? uh, not the
narrative, but who watches which
narrative. yeah, i really don't look at
it that way at all. in fact, um i really
think that it goes back to what i was
saying, which is youtube really is a
reflection of of what is happening in
the world. and precisely, it's actually
meant to be a reflection of what's
interesting to you in the moment. when
you open up the youtube app, it really
should be a reflection of nikil's
interests of the moment over some period
of time. uh doesn't mean that it's just
that. there's obviously we endeavor to
show a diversity of content, but it's
generally oriented around what we know
to be of your personal interest based on
your viewing habits, etc. so, you as the
user really are in the driver's seat in
terms of what type of content you're
looking for, what you're looking to
view, and it's the job of the content
creators to be true to who they are, but
then to use the youtube platform to
build an audience. and i say that, you
know, youtube in many ways is the the
the the most efficient way of connecting
a creator like yourself with their
audience wherever they are in the world.
but it's it's really just that you are
the one responsible for actually
producing the content that's interesting
to people and i as a fan of yours um am
only going to watch it to the extent
that i'm interested. and so that's
fundamentally what happens on youtube.
in your question about what happened in
the recent elections in the us, um i do
think that um
uh news commentators, podcasters or who
whatever you want to call them play
played a played a big role in that
election. and i do think that candidates
that um got the word out as a result of
engagement in what you know in
generations past or years past would
have been overlooked as an outlet. um
ended up being successful because those
podcasters had large audiences that were
interested in what their guests had to
say and um we saw that play out over and
over. um you know i always say that the
success of podcasts on youtube it came
into focus last year. you know,
obviously the elections were were kind
of a pivotal point in the us, but it was
like an overnight success many years in
the making because when we first started
investing in in podcasts, um, and i'm
curious what your experiences uh on our
platform, we made like two or three
really big bets that i think back then
would have been kind of strange. well,
the biggest is we bet on the fact that
people would want to watch a
conversation, not listen to it. lots of
people listen to podcasts on youtube,
but lots of people watch it. and
obviously covid was an accelerator when
people were at homes, they wanted to see
what was happening. but um there's an
enormous amount of content, podcast
content that's viewed uh not just on
mobile phones, but on television
screens. so that was one. the second was
really betting on discovery. so
discovery around not just podcasts that
you're subscribed to, but like discovery
around podcasts that you might be
genuinely interested in. so that was a
that was a really big part of it. so
posting the podcast and and going about
it that way. and then the third piece is
just recognizing that um it's not just
about building an audience for
podcasters, it's also helping them
monetize it. so really making it so that
podcasts were integrated into our
youtube partner program monetization. so
those three bets really ended up being i
think kind of foundational driver of our
of our podcast strategy. so when i think
of podcasting neil uh news has there is
no information arbitrage when somebody
is reporting the news for a long time
the bias of the reporter is why i might
have watched one particular news channel
over
another. i feel recently people have
gotten disillusioned by
corporations owning news channels and
assume the newscasters views will also
be biased and a podcaster seems to be
more of a independent character so the
bias of the corporation doesn't
translate onto him. do you think why
people are moving to podcast in the news
information space? um yeah, that's
really interesting and i think
um first i would say i think there's
lots of reasons why why um podcasters
have moved to platforms like youtube but
also found success on it. but i think
two comes down to two fundamental
things. um, one is they would only do it
if they felt that they could build an
audience on youtube. so that there was
no barrier between them and the audience
that they were looking to build. no, my
question is more why is the audience
choosing to know what happened in the
world from a podcaster versus a news
media channel?
uh, i have to, you know, i'd say that i
don't think it's an eitheror. so i would
say and again just speaking from a
what's happening on youtube standpoint,
we see lots of success from what you
would call traditional news channels. um
they have adopted the youtube style of
content. uh many of them have been
investing in the platform for a very
long time. and i don't mean just clips.
i mean like full-on live news
broadcasts, um replays of the broadcast,
live streams in many cases. so really
kind of all the gamut of news and we
have seen um their success on our
platform as well especially when people
are coming to youtube looking for
information around politics um to use
your example but you know whatever sort
of thing impacts their lives we've seen
that success now i think what a
podcaster does sort of to the extent
that they're related to news is that
they cover the news talk about the news
but they also are doing it um through
the means and the tools of a creator
right like so you know youtube often
times is about connecting with the
person whose channel it is like it's not
just about what they said in that one
particular video i as a fan am
interested in that person in general
like how do they go about their day what
their interests are etc and so i think
the nice thing about podcasting on
youtube is it really combines both of
those things if i were to push you a at
neil and ask you a binary answer to the
question. 5 years from today, will you
be watching fox or cnn to know what
happened in the world that day or would
you be watching a independent creator on
youtube say what it is? i really don't
think it's going to be one or the other.
fox um had one of its most successful
quarters months ever on youtube. just i
think just last month they reported it
themselves. they've been investing and
credit to them, right? they've been
investing heavily in understanding
uh this um uh but i also think alongside
of that you're going to see other types
of content like you said podcasters be
successful and i think some of that gets
at sort of the inherent nature of
youtube which is it really can be all of
these things. i mean two billion people
come to the platform every single day.
um the subset of them that are consuming
news, there's going to be such enormous
diversity in terms of their preferences,
their priorities in terms of how they
consume news on youtube. so, i just
think that 5 years from now, you should
expect to see more of that diversity,
not less. i think if i were predicting
anything, i don't think it would be a
one or zero between those two types of
options. i could very well see a third
type of format get invented and find
success on the platform. that's what's
amazing about about the creators on on
youtube is you never really know what
they're going to experiment with and
then come up with next. i know it's
tough to put youtube in a box, but if
you were to try and define what youtube
is today, what would you say it is?
um um that's a great question. i would
say
um i i think we are we are really our
own thing. and and what i uh what i mean
by that is our ambition is to be a a a
streaming service where you
can watch, create, and share video
regardless of where you are in the
world, who you are. um and that's our
goal. that's our mission. and what i
like about that is it really
encapsulates everything from living room
screens to television screens to um you
know your phone in your pocket uh to you
know car radio all that sort of stuff.
we're not social media. we're not a
place where you go to connect or share
with your friends. you're primarily
there to watch video. um and we're not
sort of linear traditional television
either. um, we're sort of our own thing
because of the nature of the content
that's created on our platform. being a
creator-led content generation platform,
are you
more a place where content is stored and
then streamed? do you think the
technology of doing that defines youtube
more? or are you a curator of content
which shows me what i want to see more?
um, i think the term create curator is a
is a bit of a loaded term and because we
don't curate the content. we've tried in
in the past. we had something called
youtube originals. it wasn't successful.
so, we don't do that. what we do. i the
the analogy that i use that i think i
think sort of works best is most of the
people at youtube
uh are software engineers or
technologists and our job is to build
the stage and i want that to be the best
possible stage in the world. when you
come to the stage to this theater, the
most comfortable seats, the best view
lines, the most amazing, you know,
effects or what have you. um but that's
it. that's what we do. the people that
are on the stage are our creators. and
so we have to create the tools and
capabilities that make them shine the
best possible stage and make viewers
really want to keep coming back to that
theater. and i think that's the best
really the best way to describe uh what
youtube is and and what youtube does. so
build the technology and then frankly
get out of the way.
so, is youtube the show director which
picks which show goes on at what time?
or are you somebody who built the
theater? we are really someone who built
the theater, right? we don't
um i don't tell you when to post or what
you should say. you have exercised that
creative control. well, back to your
point on podcasters. i multiple
podcasters will tell me that they have
they've had more creative and editorial
control by taking their destiny into
their own hands than they ever had in
sort of any other uh type of their
profession in the past. and that's what
youtube is. you get to decide those
things. what i need to do for you is to
give you the technology that allows you
to match with your audience. not just
you know the person who subscribes to
your channel um but you know who but who
might be who who else might be
interested in it um you know you produce
um content and have conversations that
might be interesting to an english
listener somebody who understands
english but of course this conversation
might uh apply to somebody speaking
spanish or portuguese or tamil or
bengali and so i should provide you the
technology so you choose if you choose
choose to have to allow for this
conversation to happen in all those
languages as an example. so that's what
i mean by like we build the theater, we
kind of build the rooms in the theater,
we build the stage, we build the seats,
but you're the one who's on the
stage. so neil, i'm 38 years old. uh i
have grown up in india largely in
bangalore.
so my relationship with content went
from watching hindi tv serals growing up
on tv on traditional broadcast tv
uh to cricket and then maybe getting my
first personal device or a medium to
consume content when i was 16 or 17
years old.
uh to where i sit today and you know the
movie theatergoing experience all of
that followed where i sit today i'm
trying to predict where nikil the
48-year-old will be what content will he
be consuming on what medium uh can you
throw some light on that yeah i would
say a few things might be different in
10 years first i would say that
everything we've talked out. uh i still
think that we're in the early innings of
um meaning that the growth of content in
general, but uh you know, youtube
content is going to only continue to
grow on screens like the living room.
we're just getting started there. i
would say that probably the biggest
early stage sort of phenomenon that i
see that i'm very excited about and
actually a lot of it is being driven by
what's happening here in india is just
this whole idea of like creator-led
content production. so it's like you
know creators are the startups of
hollywood and i mean hollywood i mean
bollywood i mean kind of just whatever
pick your metaphor there uh and just
like startups keep an industry vibrant
just like in silicon valley creators do
the same thing um when it comes to the
production of content so in 10 years
this relatively new phenomenon which you
know i'm cons consider at least for
young people is pretty mainstream but i
think for the general population it's
not quite quite there yet. i think is
going to be pretty mainstream. you know,
when i go visit um uh burbank in
california, right down the street from
the largest studio in the world,
100-year-old studio, disney, uh there
are all of these startup studios led by
creators like rhett and link, alan
chicken chow, etc. 10,000 square foot
studios where they're producing amazing
content. it's done differently. it's
done in a very youtube style. it's done
with their personalities, but they're
doing, you know, kind of roughly what
big studios were doing before. they're
just doing it on a different sort of
scale, different budgets, etc. so, i
think that's going to be a really big
phenomenon. i think the other one that's
very exciting is um you know, the advent
of ai and what ai will be able to do for
creativity. my view is that it's really
going to be a tool that enhances human
creativity, never replacing it. we can
talk more about that. i think again, you
know, you gave the example from sort of
you growing up and sort of how these
various things sort of came into play
for you. i think if you think about it
through the lens of young people today,
the things that they take for granted um
were things that and i'm a little bit
older than you, so i had to discover
this even even later in my life. they
just they just have been having that
experience from from day one. and so i
think you know one of the things that um
people shouldn't forget when it comes to
the content world is like ultimately
consumers really are in charge. they
really vote with their time and their
engagement. and today a young person um
uh almost expects all of their favorite
content to really be in one place.
everything from a 15-second short to a
15 minute vlog to an hourong podcast, 15
hour gaming live stream and 4-hour nfl
game, you know, three-hour cricket game.
they expect it to be in one place and be
able to consume that on whatever surface
and device that they want. and so that
sort of like plethora of consumer choice
10 years from now is going to be even
more dramatic than it is today because
those young people have had that
expectation since day one. so, building
on that last
thought, in the future, if you're
competing with say netflix for mind
share, will you become more like netflix
or will netflix become more like
youtube? i mean, it's a it's i i think
that our approach is going to be thero
approach that you've seen on youtube.
you should expect that same approach uh
going into the future. like i said, we
produce the stage. we will be the
leaders when it comes to technology.
whether it's our investment in ai and
the algorithm in terms of how the
product looks and feels, all the bells
and whistles we build for creators, you
should expect us to continue to do that.
but it's going to be our creators that
actually determine that sort of creative
journey where it goes. and i like that
because our creators are infinitely
creative. there are um you know 100
million creators in india uploaded
videos on youtube. we have 15,000
creators in india over a million subs.
when i was here last just a few months
ago uh that number was i think 11,000.
when i first started at youtube like 10
years ago that number was like four or
five. so just this proliferation of
amazing content, amazing creativity is
what you know is what youtube is today
and that's what you should expect it to
be 5 10 years from now too for content
like hollywood and bollywood. i've had
this conversation with a friend of mine
who was recently putting out a
movie. i know he did consider putting it
on youtube straight up and charging a
fee uh a smaller fee
albeit but then comes in the concern of
piracy if he were not to go the theater
or the multiplex route. do you have any
thoughts about that? if i'm a filmmaker
mhm. and i don't go to a multiplex or a
theater and i come to youtube and i
release a movie there, uh how do you
prevent somebody from copying it and
republishing
it? um we have
uh for a long time invested very heavily
in the drm tools that that that try to
prevent that from happening. now, if
somebody is um screen grabbing and
screen gaping in a particular way, it's
it's really hard. and there's two
aspects obviously of piracy. um by the
way, i might be able to guess who this
friend of yours is. i've heard this
feedback directly from from him. so, um
i watched the movie. yeah. yeah. it
looks amazing. yes. yes. um
uh there's two aspects to piracy. one is
the actual act of creating that copy and
as i said things like drm and what we do
to sort of prevent against that at least
create enough friction where it's not
trivial to do and then the other aspect
of course is the distribution piece
because like piracy is ultimately for
viewership and if you can kind of choke
that piece off then that's sort of
getting at one of the other use cases
and that's where you know the fact that
lots of content is ultimately
distributed on youtube we have that
choke point around that type of uh um
content in conjunction with our policy.
so, it's a twofold approach. it's never
perfect from that standpoint, but i
think um history has shown that we have
a pretty good handle in terms of that
type of content never running rampant on
youtube. so, my audience, neil, are
largely young indian wannabe
entrepreneurs. mhm.
the line between a influencer and
somebody who wants to start a business
is fading in india like it is elsewhere
in the world.
a lot of my people believe that to sell
anything you need to build influence
first either on youtube or other social
media and then you build a product on
top of that influence.
now to them if me at 38 let's say today
i spend 30% of my time on youtube 30% of
my my free time on youtube 30% of my
free time on social media and the
balance on broadcast news and the other
platforms and netflix and
everything where should these people
focus on building say somebody wants to
start a t-shirt brand m where should he
build influence today and give me some
tips for him to build influence there
today. yeah. so, i think the first thing
that i would say is i wouldn't i
wouldn't
describe if that's your sole goal, then
i would i would think about youtube a a
bit differently. the way i think about
youtube is it's really the home for
creators. and i use that term creator
specifically as opposed to influencer or
what have you because the primary
purpose of your presence and investment
on youtube has to be uh the act of
creation about having an
idea whatever the topic having whether
it's funny whether it's sports whether
it's business and sharing it. so that's
if that's not really fundamentally the
goal then i think it becomes a bit
harder on youtube. now having said that
if that is a goal then what i hear over
and over from youtubers you know here in
mumbai but really all over the world is
that youtube is their home because it is
a place where they
um have that connection to their
audience in a way that is deeper and
more authentic than they can get
anywhere else. and so they keep coming
back to that. um you know jimmy
donaldson mr. beast has these five
pillars of focus in his studio in his
office. the very first one is youtube
first because he knows that everything
that he has derived uh has come from
that investment on youtube. and so if
you do that but do it through a creator
mindset then i think it affords you a
world of opportunities because then you
can use that home base to build
audiences elsewhere or drive those
audiences back. but more importantly to
build all kinds of other businesses.
there's of course how you monetize
content on youtube through advertising
or a cut of the esvod revenues. but
what's really interesting about youtube
is that if you want to write a book or
if you have a clothing line or if you
have um some other product that you're
very excited about, youtube can be the
home base by which you build all of
those businesses over and over. and i
see that um happen with our top creators
uh you know the mr. beasts of the world
but really um you know millions of our
creators um over over time. it's a kind
of a long answer but that's really but i
think that's important because it's not
a place that's a fly by night place. if
you were to replace the influencer in my
question to content creator,
say in me, nikil wants to sell
t-shirts. i need to create some kind of
content before i can go about selling my
t-shirts. so, i have somebody watching
my content where i can market this
t-shirt. what will work today? what i'm
asking you is in a very euphemized
manner, what is the youtube algorithm to
a lay man like me and what can i do
today to succeed on it? success in my
definition in this particular subject
would be the number of views and
distribution i get. yeah, i would say
that what the most important advice that
i give to two pieces of advice that i
give to somebody thinking about building
a career on youtube. the first is
um really think hard about what type of
content you're passionate about. so if
it happens to be t-shirts or something
related to it. no, i want to sell
t-shirts. i want you to tell me content.
yes. but i don't i think that if your
only goal in life is to sell t-shirts,
then you better also really care and
have passion around creating content. it
shouldn't be a means to an end, right?
um so that that's what i meant by home
of creators. uh because um if you don't
have passion around that, you're not
going to be your authentic self and fans
will figure that out very very quickly
and you're not going to build a fan
base. and so the first and most
important thing that i would say is
think hard about what you are really
really excited about. um, you know, we
work with all kinds of, you know,
athletes on our platform and, um, it
comes through really, really quickly
when they're talking about something
that they're really excited about versus
not, right? like it's not just about
throwing up a piece of content. and
that's super, super important because
like the power of youtube is that it's
not just an algorithm of your favorite
meme of the week or favorite, you know,
what have you. it is about your face,
your you as the creator and you've built
that because you talk about something
authentically that your fans uh
understand. that's really the most
important thing and i say that over and
over. that's the difference between
somebody who's who stops doing it after
a few months and that really continues.
the second um you know youtube can be a
bit of a slow burn. um, and so if you
are passionate about something, care
deeply about it, give it time because
you want to um, set expectations with
your audience
about what you're going to talk about,
what's your content going to be about,
what are you going to do, and how you're
going to go about doing it. and that
builds over time. and that builds in
terms of followerships but it actually
also builds in terms of you know the
algorithm because the algorithm is just
a reflection of the audience. so those
are the two most important things.
a really smart person once said about
passion that the passion about something
goes away when you truly understand
something. do you
think what is passion to you? because
the answer to my question, you said, you
know, you should build around what
you're passionate about. what is the
definition of passion?
oh, um, well, i think it is,
uh, something that you have,
uh, such deep and
abiding interest in that you would just
keep doing it if it wasn't for all of
these other goals as well. is there
anything like that, neil? would you do
something if what is what is that for
you? um you know my background is i am a
technologist by training. i've been
interested and you know let's say
passionate about technology since i was
a really young kid. um i went to high
school in lucknau. i had a little uh
software startup back in the day
building software for for for other high
school kids and teachers. and so i've
always had a deep and abiding interest
in technology. but i have also from a
very very early
days, for lack of a better term, been a
media junkie. like i love stories in the
general in broadest sense of the term.
movies, music, sports. i'm a sports nut.
um those are like two abiding passions
i've had since i could like i was, you
know, probably five or six years old.
and but you're talking about consuming
something. i'm talking about you
consuming practicing something? uh well
i um i mean i do try to practice those
things. i'm not very good at them. so
that's uh uh in terms of my my my love
of sports, but i'm highlighting it
because um those are areas of of passion
of mine and the way that i practice them
is what i do every day. i think that
youtube is one of the few places that
combines both those passions that i have
um both technology as well as media. and
so, you know, did i stumble upon this?
probably like i got lucky that i was
given given this opportunity. but those
really are a place where i get
to work on technology in service of like
the thing that i really love. the more i
think about passion and talent, neil,
in my life, it's starting to sound to me
more as an output than as an input.
i believe i'm passionate or talented at
something. when i do something and i'm a
little bit better at it than my peer
group. uh i was having this conversation
with someone. if i believed that i was
passionate about playing cricket and i
played cricket for 10 years, trained
really hard and sucked at it, i don't
think i would be passionate about
cricket. so passion is almost an output.
talent is almost an output.
less so an input to me today. do you
think you were good at technology and
hence you felt like you could be
passionate about it? it's interesting. i
mean i think what you're describing is
kind of like almost a flywheel or
chicken and egg type of a thing.
um i have always been passionate about
sports for example, right? i played
little league, i played soccer, i played
cricket. um, i was never good enough to
but were you good? were you better than
the people you played with? i was okay.
but i but i but that interest still
continues today. i love playing
basketball with myself. are you
generally a modest person? like i was
asking your team earlier. they said
you're a quiet person. uh, i am i tend
to be a quiet person. yes, that's
probably how my wife would describe me.
you seem more like
a euphemism versus embellishment kind of
person. my wife calls me even kill me
neil. so that's uh that is i think a
pretty apt description. so you're not
very emotive. uh i can i can be emotive.
uh i mean my kids would say that i can
be emotive sometimes but uh i'm i'm
pretty even killed in terms of my
day-to-day in terms of how i go about
myself. and i think part of it has to do
with i think perspective. um i think
that uh whether there's challenges that
you face in your work life or even in
your personal life, they can be very
very hard. but
um you know keeping things in
perspective is really often times the
best way to to get through them. is that
good for work? um i think that it is
good for work. i mean, i think the
things that are really important um in
my job leading youtube is actually
having a level head to be because that
allows for i think sort of the most
well-considered judgment around things.
i i always say that, you know, by the
time a decision comes up to me, uh it's
usually a decision between two bad
choices because if it was easier, then
it would have been made several levels
below me in the organization. and so if
that's the nature of the types of
decisions i have to make, um i'd rather
make them with a level head, a cool
head. um i'd also like to make them
with, you know, principles that i've
hopefully thought about well ahead of
time. um especially when it comes to
difficult trade-offs. um so yeah, i
think it is a useful skill um in my
professional life. you mentioned lucknau
just now. uh you were born in the west
in the us, came back for high school and
then went back and i read that your
father was from iit who went to the us
to do his phd. mhm. uh the one thing
that stood out to me is you grew up on
things like transformers and baseball
and star wars. so even though you look
like me, you're not
really somebody who grew up on the same
diet of content as me.
um, you know what i would say about that
though, nicole? probably the biggest
reason for that is uh because you're
younger than me. no, seriously, like i
do think that i'm 51, so that that does
that does make a bit of a difference.
um, but you know, it's interesting like
i so i like you said, i went to high
school in in lucknau. my dad i was born
in in um uh in indiana. my dad was
getting his phd. so when my parents were
were grad students was when i was born
and um came back here for for high
school and yes you know that was a part
of the diet that i grew up on. you know
transformers and you know star wars and
and all of that. um but i'd say a couple
things even back then and now we're i'm
really dating myself so like you're
talking like mid 80s.
um a lot of those things had spilled
over to my friends here. um, but i would
say uh
not particularly uh a little bit a
little bit but i but the other the other
thing though is like you know back to
what we were talking about like um the
these were specific types of interests
but i think that if you broadened it out
you like i fell in love with cricket for
example right away and why because i i
liked all kinds of sports and so whether
it was baseball or basketball growing up
or cricket when i was in high school,
like the nature of the competition,
um the nature of sort of teamwork and
how those things happened like that was
like really natural for me and and also
just lots of ways to have relationships
and conversations with people. um you
know, i loved a particular set of
movies. um but then you know i uh
remember watching what was popular here
and actually you know back to back to
media that was right around the time
that the media landscape here started to
change dramatically too which was there
was of course bollywood and then you
know what t-series represented in
bollywood but it was also the advent of
things like star. so that was like a
precursor to a lot of what we're talking
about today in terms of just changing
the media diet through lots of choice
for example, right? and so that was a
big sort of i think foundational thing
for me when i was a kid. and i i think
you know again people always find these
sorts of threads like in retrospect um
to kind of sort of justify what they've
done in the rest of their careers. but i
do think that like that early especially
in those formative years of just falling
in love with all these different types
of media and storytelling was an
important part of my childhood that i
sort of carried through because you know
it was one of those things where growing
up um in the us like i love baseball i
love i love you know transformers etc.
and then coming here where you know i
sounded funny like i didn't have sort of
like those immediate things to connect
with people on but finding some of these
common ground types of things like
sports like music etc was like really
formative for me and i do think that
that's probably back to your sort of
passion or interests like that's carried
forward um in the rest of my career
because i do think that
like the one of the foundational things
is we as human beings um are
storytellers. like the way we connect
with each other is like telling stories.
like i'll remember an anecdote about you
in this conversation and you'll likely
do that about me. um well, i'll remember
the the story. yeah. the story you
walked through in terms of your own
media diet evolution. like obviously i
know your bio, your enormous success
professionally, but like that was an
interesting anecdote that you told me
that was like true to who you are,
right? and so you've been wealthy a long
time. i remember reading this thing
about google offering you $100 million
not to quit. not today, but 15 years
ago, which was a lot of
money. what is it? i like that you're
waiting for the question at this point
and not reacting.
i want to see where you're going to take
this.
what is it about, you know, there's a i
can put you in a box, not in a bad way,
but in the manner
that techie growing up, uh, iit dad, i'm
going to make the assumption and
extrapolate that you were fairly nerdy
growing up, indian origin, making a lot
of money in the us in the last 20, 30
years.
when you come from that background to
india, a, what is working for indian
origin people in the us who are
accomplishing as much as you are? and b,
when you come here,
does projecting
patriotism to india
almost help open up a market
which you and your peer group believe
will be really large going forward
tomorrow?
um when you say projecting patriotism,
you mean like indian professing a love
for uh like this the admiration for
india? no, i feel like deep down we are
all wearing a mask. mhm. the mask
changes depending on who we are sitting
around.
uh now that the world is so connected
the masks have become more nuanced cuz
one mask in a certain geography can be
viewed by another in another geography
and youtube has played a big part in
that. mhm. so when you come to india now
neil moan the ceo of youtube what masks
work and what don't and which one do you
have on? oh my goodness. um well uh
hopefully i'm not very sophisticated in
masks. so um i always like to think that
it's what you see is what you get. um
uh and by the way don't believe every
single headline that you read even if it
was 15 years old. so i'll i'll uh to
start address the first part of your
question. um, i would say that
uh i mean again just in my in my
particular role
um what's amazing about youtube is it
really is truly global like you just
said like this this conversation uh you
know you've had enormous success here in
india but you've had success all over
the world and so i expect everything
that we talk about here is going to be
consumed not just here but really in
every other part of the world and
hopefully what we're talking about is
just as applicable in that sense. uh you
know when i when i come to india i mean
i i i really um i'll say a few things
that i've said before that i think um
really ring true is you see the enormous
success of india on
youtube but in general in the creative
and you know we started this
conversation talking about waves uh in
the creative industries through numbers
and data right like four out of five
indians is on youtube um you know
billions of hours of you know content
being created consumed 100 million
channels uploading videos 15,000 over a
million million subs um you know indian
creators uh uh generated 21,000 crores
uh uh $2.5 billion on youtube in the
last 3 years i could go on and on and on
but it is not until you are here on the
ground that you viscerally understand
that and what i mean by that is the
vibrancy around um the creator economy
and it's like kind of and you sort of
alluded to this earlier. it's like it's
two things. yes, you have to be a
creative person, an authentic thought.
you have to share it with yourself, but
you also have to be an entrepreneur. you
have to be someone who's really and what
i mean by that is like truly
entrepreneurial in the best sense like
someone who's willing to work hard and
really give into their passion kind of a
thing. and i see that every time i'm
here in india and um i really think that
that's where all of this success has
come from. um and it's not just like
their success of these creators in
india. something like the on the order
of 15% or uh like uh which translates to
about 45 billion hours of watch time of
content created by indian creators is
actually consumed outside of india. so,
it's an exporter of ideas and culture.
and so, but you viscerally see that when
it's happening here, when you see that
just walking the streets in terms of how
people what they're watching on their
phones, uh, you see that in the
conversations i have with creators. and
so, that's really what i would reiterate
every time i'm here. whether you call
that a mask or not, that's that's the
reality from my standpoint.
i'm an investor first and foremost. mhm.
if i had $100 to invest and i could
buy
spotify,
youtube, a movie theater business, a
hollywood studio, a news broadcasting
company, where would i put my money? if
i could only put it in one place for the
next decade. i mean, i can't i'm not
going to give you investment advice.
you're a much savvier investor than i
am. i can't give you any advice. um, i
would again just just uh maybe broaden
it. i would just say i think that really
youtube is different than all of those
pieces that you touched on. i mean, we
interact with, we probably compete with
some of those players that you
mentioned, but um, you know, our lane is
different. it really is
about watching, sharing, and creating
video. full stop. that's what we uh want
to do. we want to make sure that we
continue to do it. we are the world's
oldest and largest creator economy and
uh you know it's my ambition as ceo to
make sure that continues to be the case.
and if i were to go back to the fact
that i'm speaking to entrepreneurs who
want to use this platform to grow a
business, can you give me five
non-obvious insights about the world of
content that i might not be able to find
online?
yeah. uh let me say a few things. first
is um and i don't know if this is
obvious or not but i'll just i'll say
sort of the things that i i i i think an
upand cominging entrepreneur would would
want to think about. one is you know
places like youtube but other platforms
also
um have really
eliminated the need or the like the fact
of a barrier between you and your
audience or your customer or however you
think about it. like you are in the
driver's seat. you get to control what
that conversation looks like and you get
the feedback immediately. that's the
second thing. it's like as opposed to
feedback that would happen in the
traditional way whether you were an
entrepreneur and getting the feedback
from the market 6 months down the road
or from your investors a year down the
road. feedback on a place like youtube
is instantaneously. you see, you
literally see it in the comments within
minutes of you, seconds, minutes within
you posting the video. so that's a world
uh that you really really have to be
ready for. the third we talked about um
which is true uh truly global right like
so um you can have local regional
national sort of ambitions but you know
content tends to be global storylines do
translate. they are specifics obviously
and obviously culture matters a lot. um,
but that's that's kind of the the the
the third thing that i would say. one
thing that i think is was not obvious
for a while is now starting to be more
obvious around content is um it truly is
multi-creen, right? like you know like
the mental model when you say the word
youtube, what pops into your head? you
might be a mobile phone. well um in the
us the majority of content is actually
consumed on television screens and you
know that could happen in the rest of
the world. it's our fastest growing
screen. so just you know kind of this
multimodality multi-urface is is is
super super important. and then i think
the very last thing i'll say again from
an entrepreneur standpoint is um our
fundamental business model is an
advertising model and that's because
we're large scale right like it is a way
to reach a very large pool of people
with your content if it's ad supported.
but i also think that uh entrepreneurs
should think about other types of
monetization models like esvod. we have
a subscription business right with
youtube premium. um direct fanf funding
models right especially if you have
niche content. if you are you know
creating content in a particular
education vertical that is super super
valuable um but probably doesn't have
broad reach then a direct consumer fanf
funding type model might make sense. we
talked about shopping and and merch and
those types of use cases. so be um
creative and flexible about the
monetization models. uh but be very rock
solid in terms of the content that
you're that's true to you. if all of all
the world is stories and stage a stage
uh if neil had to quit youtube tomorrow
and build youtube's
competition because the world should not
just have one, two, or three stages but
many stages. what would you build that
can compete with youtube as a better
place to tell stories?
uh well hopefully if that's going to be
the case, we're doing it within youtube.
um, i always say to our teams that we
really do have to continue to disrupt
ourselves. that's what our creators and
our viewers expect whether they say it
or not. they they do expect that. um,
you know, one area that we haven't
talked a lot about, but i am very
excited by and i i do think it will be
disruptive not just to youtube, but to
the creative industries in general is is
ai and everything that's happening with
ai. and
um i think it can be disruptive up and
down the stack. what we're doing, and
you know, i'm sure lots of competition
is doing, but what we're doing at
youtube is how do we turn it into tools
that allow for that disruption to occur
because you can't bury that
technological disruption, but um allow
for it to feel like it is in the hands
of the creative people. and uh so i'll
just give you a couple of examples.
um, the technology exists today when you
hit that plus but plus camera on youtube
to now within a few seconds give it a
text prompt of, you know, let's change
this set to one where we're sitting in a
spring meadow and there's birds and
flowers
outside. and that's probably something
uh that would have taken us days or
weeks to put together if that's what we
wanted our set to be. ai allows you to
do that. now in seconds. and that's a
collaboration between youtube and google
deepmind. so that's pretty profound from
a user standpoint. as fans, we're like,
"wow, we get get the benefit of this."
um, really, really quickly. i also think
it is a tool in the hands of the
creator. like it was your decision or my
decision to come up with that creative
idea and now it's there. and so that's
really cool because now this technology
is in the hands of a lot more creators.
but it is disruptive because it did
disrupt a lot of things that needed to
happen in the preai scenario, right?
like that that days or weeks that would
have taken. so i don't want to be naive
to that. and so i just
um i think that's where you're going to
see lots of
really interesting disruption in a way
that creates new opportunities because
now 10,000 more people could produce
that content than otherwise could have.
but i do recognize that it's actually
also going to disrupt certain parts of
that sort of value chain or stack or
whatever you want to call it um through
the process. and i could give you many
examples of that in the creative
industry. if i were to put back the
investor hat for a second, let's assume
openai used youtube data for
sora. and again, if you had $100 that
you could bet behind one large ai
company, which company has the most
data? is it google? is it microsoft? is
it as an outsider trying to take a bet
on the world of ai broadly? where do you
think that money should go? remove the
remove like your own company from the
pitch.
um, you know, is it i think it's hard to
answer who has the most data or what
have you. i think that um data is sort
of one part of of the equation. i do
think that um technological
breakthroughs and investment in
innovation is another big part of it. i
i get to uh work very closely with
google deep mind every day particularly
in areas of you know audio and video
right with the vo models etc. so i see
how powerful that innovation can be. and
then there's a third piece which doesn't
actually get talked about that much but
i think is also very important which is
the applications of these models. how do
they actually show up? how do they show
up in a way where they're useful and
they capture the imagination but not
just capture the imagination once and
then they're forgotten about but then
really become something mainstream. and
so i think all three of those pieces are
important. at youtube, our focus is
really obviously working on the deep
sort of technology and collaboration
with deep mind, but also just as much
turning it into tools and features. so,
i described this product to you called
dreamcreen, which is like, you know,
kind of this super interesting product.
wow. oh my god, you can you can create
that amazing video out of thin air from
just this quick text prompt. of course,
it's amazing. it's mindblowing.
um, but when we talk to our creators,
when i talk to creators, they they love
that feature. they think it's powerful.
it democratizes creation. all all great
great stuff. uh, but they also talk to
me things about like, you know, why
don't you do something even more kind of
basic basic and mundane, which is
like, why not just give me a translation
of my video in 10 big languages? why not
give it to me in a thousand different
languages? and why not do it in a way
where it captures
um my tone my inflection and ai will be
able to do that and that will be magical
too and that will have a profound impact
on like you know some some kid um you
know trying to learn algebra in a small
indian village uh and that's like a
profound impact on humanity but it's not
as interesting at least it's not kind of
like like as glitzy of a use case.
another one that comes to mind that
creators always talk to me about is, you
know, one of their biggest challenges is
sort of the blank blank um uh screen
problem. like, i have a video, i have no
idea what to do next, and i'm a travel
vlogger. um well, could i iterate with
an ai to actually help me come up with
ideas on, you know, the next where
should i take my next trip and what sort
of video should i produce around it? uh
so those are these are the types of
things where a lot of ai innovation is
happening because that's what makes it
actually practical for for real users.
are attention spans falling or growing?
i can watch a netflix or a youtube show
for 10 hours and binge it and yet i hear
people's attention spans have come down
to 10 seconds or 20 seconds. what do you
think? uh i don't see it one way or the
other. i mean our our we see all all
nature of consumption patterns on
youtube. um what are you betting more
on? long form or shorts?
i mean i think i really view them as
kind of a i i don't view them as two
separate things i guess is what i would
say. i i think short sort of stands on
its own in the sense in that it's like
it's vertical. it's shot on a mobile
phone. maybe it gets consumed more in a
feed, but all it is is just like it's
shorter video. it's like if you take uh
put your head back to where youtube
wasif we were just celebrating our 20th
birthday, right? so go back to the very
early days of youtube that people call
that shorts. that was shorts back then.
and so it's just like i think it's like
a frame of reference thing. um and in
our corpus we
see our long form content in many cases
growing even longer um getting more
episodic in nature as you're describing.
uh and we have, you know, short form
content that's 15 seconds, but we get we
get uh lots of asks for that short for
short form content to be over 3 minutes
long. so, like it's just like a a a
continuum. and i think in terms of
attention
span, you know, i you know, you can have
a long session just consuming quote
unquote short content and vice versa. so
i i see it really um i kind of see it in
in we see it in all all different
directions. i don't think there's a one
one or the other. i use youtube a lot as
a second screen while i'm at work. so if
i use it for i'm watching like podcasts
and i don't know random like studies and
stuff like that. i actually find
that this is me being really honest.
when i turn on a screen, my tv, and i
watch netflix, mhm. i feel like i'm
doing something wrong. but when i turn
on my tv and i watch youtube, very
subconsciously, i feel like i'm doing
something right. i don't know how to
describe this. yeah. because somewhere
in my subconscious, the latter makes me
think i'm learning. and when i'm
learning, some anxiety in me is
alleviated. i don't know if that's by
design or not. uh i'm not sure
if i it's not by design in the sense of
anything that we have done to either
communicate that or pick the content. so
i feel like the credit really goes again
to our amazing creators, you know, the
100 million creators that upload in
india or wherever. i will say um
learning is a really big use case on
youtube. and when i say learning, i mean
the broad definition of the term
learning. um, you know, frankly, in my
own experience, i used youtube a lot for
that. like, and all kinds of niches of
learning are really really popular.
obviously, there's the obvious learning
like, you know, high school kid in the
classroom kind of learning. and then
there's the other sort of very obvious
thing, which is like, well, how do i fix
my bike or how did i how do i fix my
garage door? but like the really deep
learning use cases are pretty esoteric
and can and and have lots and lots of
content in very particular places. a
colleague of mine always talks about his
love of, you know, um, woodworking,
right, and carving. and you can go
really deep on that on youtube. i love
like, it's kind of random, but i love
like logistics and logistics patterns
and how things happen sort of in
infrastructure. you can go really deep
on that on youtube. so that is not
something that we sort of pick those
content verticals on purpose. but just
like every niche sort of exists on
youtube, there's 20 billion videos that
have been uh uploaded to youtube. that
that's that's every that's where the
experience comes from. so 5 years ago
when i turned on youtube, it was to play
songs. mhm. that position in my mind
somehow is lost has been lost to
spotify. mhm. now when i think of a
song, i go to spotify. when i think of a
podcast or something around learning, i
go to youtube. when i think of
entertainment, entertainment, i go to
netflix. do you think the music
battle spotify has gained a lot of
traction in over the last few years? why
do you feel that way about music? i
don't know. it's just how i use it. mhm.
i didn't have spotify six, seven years
ago. and also, i'm not the generic
indian user. mhm.
but
somehow my music needs today are not met
by youtube. but more needs of mine
around learning are met by youtube.
yeah, it's interesting. i mean, like i
said, i mean, learning is a very large
use case on youtube across every
demographic, every part of the world.
it's one that i'm very proud of. you
know, i saw a stat 90% plus of classroom
teachers use youtube in the classroom in
some particular way. so that is core to
what we do. but music is our i'd say
almost oldest and one of our most
important verticals by far. it's really
core to the youtube uh heritage starting
from you know the early days of youtube
and t-series and t-series is still one
of our most important most strategic
largest partners. there's a few things
that i would say that's happened i think
to music in in india in general
regardless of you know youtube or
spotify which is you know the growth of
um you know indian origin music pop
music um in that sort of not classic
bollywood right like you know we have
amazing youtubers like king who grew up
on our platform uh who are superstars in
of their own right but sort of charted
their own path and we you know he's he's
obviously kind of a mega star but
there's lots lots and lots of examples
like that. and um i would say that
that's a really big phenomenon on
youtube just like it is on other
platforms. one of the things that um i
want to continue to do is um uh invest
more in terms of actually showcasing
that on youtube. so again, not about the
algorithm or what have you, but having
charts for example, popular charts in
not just in sort of classic bollywood
hindi, but in all of these different
languages to recognize those artists. so
we're doing more and more work like that
getting more precise about uh
algorithmic recommendations around spec
because the indian music landscape is so
diverse in terms of language and style
that um it sort of in that sense
presents like a unique challenge and
opportunity to how sophisticated the
algorithm needs to be to be able to make
good recommendations in that context.
and so those are areas that we're um
investing in. we're actually going to
talk more about some of that at waves
too. like the first night of waves is
the the the youtube cultural night which
is you know our our chance to put our
best foot forward of all of our
youtubers. so yeah, music is is very
important. i'm not sure why you feel
that way but indian music is like a core
part of our our our investment. any
fleeting thoughts? neil, you want to
tell us something?
anything that you'd like to tell us? um
no i think what i would say first of all
thank you so much for making the time
for doing this. it's really a privilege
uh to have the conversation. um i would
just say that um every time i come back
to india, i'm i'm amazed at sort of how
much the indian creative economy and
creative industry continues to grow. we
at youtube are privileged to play our
role in that. and as i said earlier in
the conversation, i think we're just
getting started. it's still the early
innings, right? thank you so much for
doing this, neil. you make india proud
and hope to see you again soon. thank
you very much. thanks for having me.
okay. all right. how was it? it was
good. you're you're a pro. you're very
very well prepared.
you guys have a studio there, too. or uh
awesome. very cool. all right, nico.
take care. thank you, everybody.
will you be are you speaking there or
are you no, i'm participating in some
round table with the pm. oh, nice. yeah.
okay. i think i i'll probably see you
there. you'll probably be on it.