the one who hurt us the most
after seeing my father
so much
interested about this fact date you
actually home in this building
this place all my life every
and what kind of a student in school
interested in d academy
you
sports and reading i love reading and
aage of six so you read a lot and in
your family your father was a producer
beautiful filming background so what
was dat influence like will going up this
tha something
made in around me and they would be what i
remember most about it is never like
my father never really tu film shoots
all was so i never very rarely would ever be
film shoot and whenever i want you film
shoot i full
no easy and you know i'm full so you know like i
don't belong they know you so i don't like you
go tu shoots but what i used tu really
love is listing tu story
wood come home tu pitta story tu my father
just concepts behind same times they wood
which you dm 15 minutes you read same times
it was a fully developed script sam
times it was which dialogue and you know like
like really totally people script so sam
times de generation wood b 15 minutes half
un horse from 3 horse 4 horse wherever
i was it home and the racer happening i was
always seat in
and listen to your story because i just love
story
years science d aage of six tu un tel i
vaz 14 15
times
i also
no these are things like that football player
cricketer
aditya in something and i had a class
bhattacharya vasudev sir
and her also not really in academy friends
and he set me date listen after de board
exams in the holidays i want you to make
short film
dialogues all silent aa par artist
will mounted film so victor banerjee was
my father an
my mother was i think shield deshpande and
i'm saying right now but very fine
artist from marathi theater in cinema
gupta was playing my girlfriend
where's it beating up and so 56 people
meetings and i react to date so like
wine wide well mountain ashok mehta de very
famous dops short d film because he is un
close friend
off connection
doing this film but what happened this is
d experience of trying will help
aditya make this film you know all the very
actively go through and make a movie date
experience give me a lot of join
and that one month made me release this is
where i belong
thoughts when i released so i was very young
so when you ask me what did you want tu
be long this time and different ideas
including body you'll be a tennis player butt
thoughts when i actually didn't zero
what i wanted you to do in life because i
experience date life i've lived for a
month and i was like you know what max
happy being part of telling story
those thoughts that make me happy and so
thoughts when i decided i want you to be in
d the film which was i think was about
shabana azmi
and his mom was a close friend of
shimanoji end
so van de and dimple theater rajendra kumar
theater aa it is cleaning and only shibaji
called him for de screening and se cum tu
watch d film and nikht my sister and i
sitting in d back
and aditya
understand anything
it is a beat take you no high fan so dat
jump understand anything butt
i am a boy
hee is really good so i kind of san glo
in my hair
dimple high back nine
but so rinky aunty set tha tires sir my
father name was
this film and it has a very short temper
person and date of course all industry new
short but my father slept okay so you
can't let him know dat i've dan this film
heil you know he killed me
actor
so tha make me full really nice you know it is
so come very encourage me a lot you know it
really made me believe dat i am i can i
can parents find out this?
word is about to come out
please on de front foot and i was you know 1
things out of the open
this is a bed you shouldn't be d film
this very difficult
so i told you i don't have a choice
because i really love it and i like it there
i want you to be so this is okay i mean after
point this release and i'm not going too
listen so everything was untempted by it me
hanger you know all i just stood for
so give this to him finally let's give it to him
please do your graduation. please do your graduation.
after that you do whatever you want
so why do i wait until graduation?
i still have three more years in films
have to reduce and i have yet to learn i three
why waste a year i still have to learn
like this friend, if i am in my films
if the film does not get any big success
i am looking for something less in the industry.
i will take it, i will become an editor, i will become an assistant
i will become a director somewhere
i will get such a thing, if not that much then i will earn.
i will take it brother
you don't rate me and really rate me
was not there because he had time to achieve success and
wasn't even thinking about failure
whatever i have to do, whatever i have to do
i am having fun why am i being stopped
and actually worth the money
brista means my relationship with money is very
it's okay, i don't pay much attention to it
and i get whatever i want
so actually everyone thinks that you
very luxurious if you are a producer's son.
your life will remain and you must be living
with silver spoon on your moha so much money
will be like that but actually
if you ask, he will tell you that actually
who is an average producer
he always hands you a lot, he wins big.
it is difficult to take care of your family
i am a father who was above average.
she is good regarding producer sensibility
if you choose stories then his films are quite good.
it has also gone
but he did not know business at all
this means we can draw conclusions
because the movie on the phone has played but their
i never have money and it's always there
let me live in it and give him time to go there from the market.
let's fly it was 36% and all that
interest rates are such a thing in our life.
there was a period of about 8 years which went very bad.
he was telling a movie whose name was
jitendra ji and rekha ji were very fond of the locket.
khan was very famous during his time in south films.
i was feeling like you wrote a lot of
film
aaj an comedian and will in south
strong character
so all these people the ramesh ahuja the director
so what happened to him in the movie when he
when it starts, sometimes it happens that the plan
it happens that never happens, there are dates
i got stuck in that movie and the time that
actors the woh bhi south ek raha hai chal raha hai
he has time to make a lot of films in the south.
and he started giving a lot of dates there and
at that time, actors did some 30-40 films.
the together
so if you are not that big a producer
and if the director is not that big then
you get less attention actors and rounds
and he raised a lot of money in interest
it happened when people would call for money.
so they don't have money for the film.
i was stuck and couldn't survive those eight years.
when it's been 3 years, 4 years, 5 years
if you go, even credit has lost your faith.
so the film is stuck so it is not going to be made now.
which film would have been completed after 6 years?
hey brother, you are the one who will give me your money.
leave it, give us our money
so the situation was that actually c.r.
on d on d roads almost
how old are your siblings?
13 14 actually no before 10
living situation
the most
it was difficult
so sorry
the simple human being
so maybe business account
the producer doesn't even get the money.
sometimes the movie used to play but you
the one who is your god was not available.
this happened a lot with the distributor.
so his movies are on anamika
the caravan has played in all the films but they
i don't know that much, never and mani.
no, his intentions were so clear that he
everyone's money always comes back white in the end.
remember
there was a film named ye jakhmi in which the datsun
yes, there was a problem in every film.
if the money is spent at the time of final release
he went to datsun and told you that your
i can't give you the full remuneration that is due.
i am here and the film is ready but i don't want you
let me release as soon as i make money
i will give you your money so go head
off course, no problem, if you do it then when
d film meet mani when did give d mani tu
d sam tu dates out k hey unit money
if you give me the remaining money then i will come and give it to you.
oh everyone, i have written them off.
because i thought because the producer
i don't see the money later so i thought
i thought i would never get this but he
my happiness thank you so much and you know
house wood you know i remember housefull
receive calls at home from people from whom you took money and
so first we used to listen to the news un shot dead
so their fights used to start on the phone.
brother, i don't have any money right now.
what should i do with my film and you are mine too?
you tell the actors to give me a date.
what should i do about my film also i am puri
i am trying to make you say that brother that
if everything is fine then you know we are on the van side
you listen to the conversation and we know everything
i remember when we used to hear
when school uniforms were made, we
amma, that's a little extra fabric.
she used to fold it and put it in so that we could get a new one.
there was no need to make pant two-three
then it runs smoothly for a year, which opens
used to go
and our school fees were very low.
wonder if we had school fees
and i had a lot of fun there at school there.
on
if you are in six standard in this thing then ₹ 6
if it is together then it is ₹7. if it is in eight then it is ₹8.
maximum fee was ₹ 10
and
in this, antire school life from second
tu de et jo i have been in sentence
not even a year has passed since we
we always pay fees on time, no matter what.
's name used to appear on the lotus board and then it
when it became too long then that
brother, these children call names in the assembly.
if the parents don't agree with the fees, the fees are not heavy.
han han see new date you know he in front of everyone
struggling
well, the funny thing was that everyone in school
it seemed
everyone wondered what if some donation
there are some magazines where you buy half pages.
there you go
to sponsor and you will magazine
happens at school
so all the teachers tell me that your
father, tell him to take bagh page front.
take the page, now how should i explain to them that i
even if i can't show the thing, that money
they are not returning your page.
will take
so what happened at home then?
when father used to ring the phone he used to say
if you pick up the phone, we will pick up the phone and then we will
people say that if the ringer is not at home then
they tell us, brother, tell them.
a call has come from someone else in the sky
go, do your graduation, then do it.
do what has to be done
engineer engineer all date no chance to him
felt like friend you should come in engineer you should
be come on doctor you should be come a charcoal
what are you talking about chance
have a set job, be a professional job
good income and successful life
i suppose there
in the industry to give experience
it is very difficult financially
it is difficult
so how is our life when you asked?
it was actually very good which was life bazaar
has given and now has given them that much
had a good life
all the problems in everything and look
after very well
difficulty
the parents do not want to give you the load.
to
and we feel bad facing all this
but despite this, i give you my
was telling about its relationship with money
despite people telling me that you
how will you make money if you are not a graduate?
how will you make me money?
actually there is no interest
i guess you don't know what you're asking
i am becoming an assistant, i will take less
if you don't know what
if you explain this to me and i
if i understand the logic then i will take it but
give me the love of my mother and father who is everyone's life.
i was not able to understand, i was feeling
that i am right, that i need to learn.
i am sorry for what is in my life.
i have to learn how to do it.
i decided that after 12th i
i also told mom that mom said
actually i am not even in 12th exam
was giving my mind was actually made up
so i said why should i do the exam when i
what happened when i came to college?
i was interesting, i came to please and
inter college play
i went for audition hindi play joshi
was not directing
so anyway i went and i got rejected
audition
result in
so i saw in the notice board
gujarati auditions going on and mahendra joshi
the director is there and in his play
there are characters in five-six but the rest are few.
30-40 they need extra core in it
those who will not have dialogue but will be on stage
will keep roaming
so i thought that at least i can take the course.
i will go by express only.
i don't know gujarati but i can watch it.
i am there, what is going on there, i am not there.
meaning, if it is not in hindi now, then there is something somewhere.
if you do, i'm getting that animation attitude.
i don't give up, not here.
so i tree there so i went for
d gujarati auditions
and there joshi was auditioning us.
was
i still remember what he did to us
there was an audition and she said the name of the play was pashu.
dyers and
i am a character and he is a painter, bridge
we are printing, we are all painters
the test was that joshi said that you
you are standing on one mountain and the other is far away
on the mountain
so he has to call you
very loudly but he didn't say anything then end
i told everyone that brother, you guys have done a lot
screamed loudly but actually
in the theater
when you have to convey distance, now emphasis
you don't shout like this, now you shout long.
hey that animal
guess where he is standing far away
long tail so he is a very fine director
and since we passed the audition
if we were not worried then we would have given extra.
we are bad actors, we are bad actors.
we threw him on the bridge
when scaffolding was made, we were on top of it.
they kept climbing and we were in action of painting.
do it when the play is going on below and avery na
on de hum log song in get the musical
we want rangra, we want rangra by doing it like this
if there was a song, that song was reset for three months.
well, i taught you a lot
dedicated
a lot, but joshi had said that you guys should come.
half an hour before, put his phonetic and i
i will come at 9:00, you guys will come at 9:30.
i will come
so no one would come, i and two-three boys would come.
by then we would have installed the complete scaffolding.
when joshi came, everyone would leave before that.
so that play was being rehearsed and the play
2 days before or 3 days before maharashtra
when it was over, mother said, "don't leave the house."
if you could then our riyasale is fine with you.
you sit at home
so in the coming days
so if you don't reach once then you can come in the evening.
only i will say sorry to joshi, not me.
i found it the next day when i went
next day she said the same didn't you cum
yesterday i became maharashtra and ammi
allowed to come
these are the other people, this is how my mother told me
joshi get out of the house
in seconds
after two days, i was so heartbroken
broke down
anything upsthiyon talks about marriage
and i say from above that you pandit
i am very slow in typing people.
i did but two days before the play i
if i leave then i
i cry a lot so i quickly weed the grass in front of me
but i was sitting and watching from riya and my
brother, i have had tears in my eyes for two days now.
after shoaib and i are not
i had done more hard work
if bamboo did not seem to be there then it was not seen joshi
by
well, it's a coincidence that life is what it is.
no how is that a small thing of yours?
i can give you an example of something life changing.
giving me what he took out of the play
within 10 or 15 minutes a friend of mine
niranjan thane he came and said brother this is mine
inderjit singh bansal is a friend in fdi
we are students in his diploma film
people are urgently joining actors and leads
i need an actor, i suggested your name.
if you have done it then you are free
that i said i am still free
if it became free 5 minutes ago, then only then
you will have to go to pune soon.
so i caught the bus, went home and back
when we backed out, we sat in asiad.
moved to pune
and i shot that short film named
it was early morning
and after that in another student i
after a few months of request, he
see he was making his diploma film
so he requested me so i
kirtan by watching that film of his film
mehta said that i want this boy
for holi
so i got cum in holi
when nasir sabar mansoor after watching holi
when he saw holi, he said friend, take this.
in the film qayamat se qayamat tak, that if
joshi, if i don't get a place then i
would not be sitting here at this time
is
movie with you
give also actually told my dad and
my mom was all over very happy let's do this
going to be in d film and actually
what happened when i started working
with answer apna devar very against it
was against it
and but i was very clear and i had
already gaan and mid shekhar kapur because of this
van of my favorite directors so i
i met shekhar after going there, i said friend
shekhar i want you to work with you an assistant
at that time, satish kaushik was his assistant.
i went and had a sweet meeting, i
paperwork showed what i do
so much comes and he was very impressed.
the my papers etc because he has time
there is no paper in the industry
satish, you used to see my slap.
those people were shaken because i was very
meticulous about my paper work so and so
when i talk to me i'm an unselfish thought
person
so i think i must be one of the best
for study in d country and nine
actor
seeing all that
satish told me later
satish has told that when you came friend
meet me for interview
you came in a car, so drive away.
i came here and i didn't have a car.
i thought i should add junior to him.
i have a car nearby, satish, i am in life.
brother was driving the car like a driver
and because i was meeting you i
the butt was in the car, i had a car, a car,
i didn't know why you didn't tell me
so he took me in a miss india
can't you take an assistant in this matter?
you believe it
then it's all in date when my uncle sleeps
this is the thought i think dude is cumming outside
gather her and make her cum under my gaze
he called me and see you be my assistant
ok this is what i needed i have to learn
so give income as working assistant and when
it's been a month since n assistant 2
it's been a month
correct
i was so good that they meant believe
it was not happening actually, nasir sir.
before joining i
i had made the film and me an short
film of 22 minutes
ki ki ki ki was written from a one shot story
wrote the dialogue, shot it and edited it.
did the background score on it all
things i did you made a movie
and then i joined as an assistant
i was very hard working and
very sharp is unassistant so release
these three months
whatever you are doing is right, atlist ji.
i am trying to reduce it and not wasting time.
you are doing it to give them that confidence.
from there things started changing again
depend on me more because you are like this
whole life
so i used to handle his entire schedule.
i was always on editing and mixing everything.
and he new care it's less if i aamir
it will be 10001% so if mixing
but if aamir has to go then who will take the rules?
if you check then i will check all de real all
d tracks and it would have been time for many tracks
we work hard all night long and we work hard all day long
people mixing
balance
release only after seeing the holi of release.
its acting is also good
many people thought that he was an actor.
there should be people who say that i am big like that.
although many people in my circle were poets
the friend with whom i grew up
he thought he would never do this acting.
could
i didn't talk much. i didn't talk much.
if gul was not found then everyone thought that
how will he act?
doesn't open i was very cute but
i had all that energy i knew
i know how to shoot
butt doesn't give anyone confidence when
i used to play tennis so i won as many
have tennis friends then my tennis is free
gone
tennis is also small in strange ways
and one day my father gave my report
saw the card
now let me show you their two forms.
he signed my report a year ago
if i had to, i would take something to sign.
spread across two-three subjects
so i was very tense that today
is going to study
so he saw and said, hey sim, you just
spread across two subjects, we are four
i would like to bring you brother where to sign.
he heard that some marks
i came less and have never read them
regarding studies, he certainly felt that
why are the marks less
zeenat your son is good whenever i do something
he used to mess around. i am zeenat's son.
his son used to go, zeenat was not yours.
son, whatever is there is spreading.
its focus is very much in tennis
tennis for four to five hours a day
he has stopped playing tennis since yesterday.
sentence ended my tennis career
because of this, now you have been calling me since yesterday.
tennis closed means closed, i go to the club and say
i can't even say that brother, i am not from tomorrow
i will come
after that i got admission in college.
he got it because of tennis but
the college didn't know i stopped playing tennis.
where am i actually
so actually he is so big for me
it was not a movement, it was a big movement for me
that was the process when we were making the film.
it was very big for me the first time when we
de and mansoor are doing this very fine
the director is a very fine mind and his
there is a lot to be learned in doing less together.
so i think my growth is very fast.
sir, i couldn't cum with you after that.
not only i am in trouble with mansoor
he was an actor but he also had first aid
i did not get credit for first aid
but complete planning is in scheduling only.
i used to work with them, my salary was 1000 rupees
but month
for working in less
i never got regular income in my life.
actually when i started making this ad my
regular income started coming, which means the production.
i used to give it and i used to take it and
then when i became an actor i thought
i don't even remember asking.
but i think i'll get a little more money when i
had become an actor but you be honest i don't
remember because i didn't ask that
you are getting like this
i used to enjoy cumming a lot. i used to cum.
what is being done is what is said from above.
you are still acting like this
my attitude was to get money also.
have been together with brother kam
working so d experience of working on
that video was unexciting for me
and lot of fan your working on d film
and mansoor and me
what are we, we are quite realistic
we are people, we love our little ones a lot
let's look realistically
generally creative people need to
we like it, we don't like it very much
this was a bad shot, what should i do with it now?
we have the ability to change our bad habits.
if we had recognized it sooner, we would have
people corrected the film a lot, we and they
was able to do it and fortunately the film turned out well.
and people liked it very much
that was a strange era of action films.
films were made
and i also didn't like it that much but
so when this film came, i felt that mansoor
i thought who would watch our film because
which is playing in the movie and which is popular
that's a very different type of film.
far away from doomsday what can happen
don't know if you will show interest
and when the film was made, nasir saheb
naasen sir's financial condition is also up to par
it was spoiled, it means the butt was not spoiled.
he was little stressed taken out of mani
the film was not big in the d market.
it took a year for the film after being to be sold.
any distributor ready to release?
not ready, everyone thought it would flop.
new hero new heroine new director
sir's last two films have not worked
not of successful production house
so there was a lot of trouble and with great difficulty he
the film was finally released
so it just went through the roof and i think
the audience that he had at that time was
it's time to go to the theater a lot.
sentry was the audience and families did not go.
he liked the atmosphere in the theater during his time.
if those people are not comfortable, then fill it up.
family head stop going tu theaters only
single screen the woh time pe to ek tabka tha
society's
used to hesitate to go to the theater
she had a man but not the type
when films were also made then i thought they were
not interested in what happens when doomsday happens
people who go to the theater feel gas on us.
so i don't know if people won't watch this movie.
who will watch this film and what happened to those people
ghar baatein de jo jo is kishan's film
the lovers for whom there are no films
was being made
b flock tu d theater
that film was very successful
and
i became an amateur, i thought i was inferior
she is quite average, i like juhi very much.
i came, i liked mansoor's cum very much
all the actors had cum very well
dilip tahil had cum very well
i just want my cum
i looked weak and when i went to the theater
and when i saw the film with the audience, i
i was shocked because he was with me very much.
they are connecting more with me.
they are reacting too much and they are mine.
i used to feel full in such audios
there was audio reaction while sitting in the theatre.
like there was a shot of my sunset when i
jogging and juhi takes my photo, that shot
but one definitely you know in the whole theater
it used to be like this and there was one shot, i don't know
why would you react, i was sitting outside the house
i am on a motorbike and we are taking juhi.
if you are going to run away then there was a shot that i
i just look towards her house like this google
so i saw it got cut
there was something they liked
make films
and the way the audience receives the film
sometimes it's different so i can imagine it
it started happening and i
the audience watched each of his films in the theatre.
with
tell me he is my best
so i watch every film of mine for a week first.
i travel to theaters in different cities
i came quietly to theaters in different places
i'll go after seeing more reactions
so that gives me a very sharp idea.
i don't need to ask anyone
how are people liking the film?
let me go and see for myself first hand
i can understand how people felt about it and
you get to learn a lot throughout your career.
career in me in the early years of
i got to learn a lot no matter what
characters making lots of big mistakes
d reaction
after that there was that which won alexander
there was only the color of love for us
back tu back tu back not actually mine
the first film became a superhit and i
i was surprised when i became an overnight star.
actually i don't know what started was
stardom meant that till now i
i used to walk on the streets, i always used to travel by bus.
and the carriage in the train was not big at all.
is
so
now that has changed because wherever i go
people didn't recognize me and i went on the bus
i can't go anywhere by train.
when it became difficult to travel, i
let me borrow your car, one of his old fiat
so i said i should do that to her because
i'm not going anywhere
you said if you try then i will try again
fiat used to do it and
one was his old victory
ucr driving was very difficult
there was a problem in that too because the people who
if he recognized me in the car, he would be mine.
water used to stop in front of the car.
block my way
they block me on the road
what i'm doing if i'm in the auto
used to be stopped right there on the road
and then it was a full morning and all that
i come out with folded hands only then i
i have to go somewhere, let me go, when it starts
i thought it was the title first time
remember what happened to me
had sent it somewhere at night by piping lucky
well, he always went to bring biryani.
i was waiting for the signal and i
saw that he
there are some people in the car next to me
looking at me and it seems as if he
know
when did you think i had seen her, friend?
some of my parents are family friends
if i don't say hey then it will be bad.
will go
if i meet him then there is also danger, maybe he is someone
who else is saying hey, i didn't feel it.
he is speaking from the same place
1 minute i don't know them.
i saw my feeling three days ago
the film has been released
i don't know there and give it men
people are recognizing me and then
the tidal view that happened after came like this.
there was no place when i knew delhi
gone
then after that we started promoting the film.
if i had gone here then i would have gone to delhi
when i used to come to the hotel room
as soon as i entered the hotel room
my phone started ringing
the hotel operator would talk to me first.
after that all his friends
my life had become difficult jump not
survive
i wouldn't go anywhere again, i would hide.
was
it felt good too, it felt very good
and i am a man of great courage
so when someone compliments me i
i immediately go into the cell, i am not ahead.
good at taking press, i am very awkward.
i am going
and i want to change the topic
quickly
my exciting time because i went too far
release big and now i got him time we
so much money was spent on making the film and the film
it is not true that we know so much about it.
people are wondering whether the film is released or not
didn't think the characters would work and we thought
was not
we thought, oh man, what will happen now?
15 16 became very successful when it was released
is
i got many offers
but the director with whom i am reduced
he was not able to come to his office.
it is very difficult to break into the industry
was
even though one of my films had become a superhit
i am not getting a grade offers mostly.
the new producers, the new directors gave me
i don't understand what to do with that time
people do 40 films in the industry
actors, everyone had 30-40 films.
she is my secretary
should do
so i went by the story
what will i sign more than 10
so if it is not left then we are doing 40 or 50.
you are so popular right now, everyone knows you
you want to sign, don't do it like this
not entered too much
when they started shooting 10 what a wrong number
was because actually i like him
i am a person who can do only one film at a time.
what i mean is i could have done a movie
after that i kept that too one at a time
i had no idea about the film 10
how do they get along well when their
when shooting started i was doing three shifts.
it was during the day
six hours here six hours here six hours here one
shooting of three films goes on a day
so i became very fond of this whole culture.
it was as if the hindi film industry was declining.
if yes, then i have never cum like this.
i thought maybe this is the way to reduce it
what do you do brother
butt i feel so sad
and with the joy with which i went from doom to doom
i cum or keep cum in
maybe my creative instinct was
very different from the director
so if i listen to the story and for
in the example story
there is a scene when the director says brother
the hero who is a hero will stand on the mountain and sing a song.
so i am thinking that this mountain which
that would be ooty-voti, that would be kullu, that would be manali.
the director is thinking that this will happen in khandala.
will happen
and the producer is thinking that film city
i also have two tiles and they also look like hills.
we will do it there then you think something else
hunger becomes something
everyone has a point of view so this is my point of view
this is the point of listening to a story, but it turns into something else.
you are going to japan, you have reached china.
this happened to me a lot in the beginning and in
i guessed that brother actually
director is most important
so i am more focused on the director than the story.
have to pay attention because if the director is bad
if so then your best story
spoil it
no, three things about release are very important
director script and producer
correct and all three important but little
more important
give you the resources to make the right film
if you support then good producer is very
all these things are important so release me too
slowly slowly and then what i did in the beginning
only creative people make mistakes
i signed the film
movies started releasing and one after the other
if it starts flopping then qayamat tak qayamat se
my next three-four after qayamat tak
there were movies, they all got destroyed
and i got the caption one time wonder
pen
and rightly so because the flashing d was worn
brother, the rest of the films did not work.
you went into great depression and i
felt very disappointed
the same three are flopping along with him.
i am shipping less daily and very bad less.
am doing
and i know that these two-three films
eight of my films flopped and got worse.
the one
it's too bad, i'm stuck in a quagmire.
inner string d changed i have tu se to
it was time for me to take a very big decision.
with in six months of my works
starting up
brother don't make me cum like that
i don't care if my career ends now.
but now i will reduce my ways
from
i had signed 8-10 of his films.
i can't do anything now
have to complete but after this
now i enjoyed the film wholeheartedly and the same
movie chuga in which my heart comes all this
i
i don't care about practical things.
to think
i was also practical but not in that
normal things you should do today movies
i don't want to do all that, i want to do a good film.
and the director of my people whom i
cum with those whose cum i like
and if you don't get less with them
well, if i don't get less then i will not get less.
i will not become an actor, i will flop.
i am like i told my mother.
if i become an editor, i will take less money.
had decided not to make me feel bad
very sir, after that i made the film.
have signed
there was a turn in my life which
this was the turning point, my career went down like this
i used to feel like i was stuck in a swamp.
and he and i are laughing below and i
here i am down to another flop
will happen
i got an offer between him and her
of whatsapp
when his offer came, i felt relieved.
and i thought because whatsapp is very
the successful director gave him time
had made a summary then he had made
name and these three films are bigger than each other
it was a hit and he was the new director.
in town
when i got their offer, i accepted it.
i liked the second one, he was very successful.
i thought this announcement would also come, right?
so my next three-four years passed like this.
will go until that film remains for 2 years
people will wait till this film comes new
release of life i'll get a chance
i will absorb it in two-three flops.
i will take
before i promised myself
the director will not like the story
you won't like these three, they won't be right
so you won't do the movie
now my situation was like this, so they
i came saying that sir you can give me a day's leave.
give me time to think, i will come to you tomorrow
if i meet her then she will get very sweetest tomorrow.
i came home and told reena.
what is the problem? bhatt saheb?
i have to do a film, don't say han.
want to say but i didn't like the story
if i say han then what i have told myself
promised that if you don't like the story
you will not come, i will do what i do to myself
i have a promise that i will break.
and if i say no to them then it will be so big
chance i am till here in the swamp whatsapp
i am actually raising my hand, brother!
i can leave you
i just want to hold their hand
but if i hold your hand i
i will compromise with my dream
so it was night in sonipat
and i thought what do i answer, what do i answer?
dunn answered me until i went to meet him
if he doesn't sleep then i will tell him the truth.
you said what did you think then i
said whatsapp actually i thought something
i don't have to tell you that
i didn't like the story and i
as long as i like the story
if you don't come, i won't stop.
can't hurt you but i would
who am i to say no to you?
i am a successful director but you don't know much about me.
i know so little but i know you
i can say my feeling that i like
if you don't come, i won't be able to do it.
and after this you might never give me less
but i'm very sorry but i can't
if i can find a hero, i will take it from this very sweet person only.
don't say all this, you shouldn't.
if you don't like the story then why do you like it?
did not come
so we both started discussing.
after the decision he said ok you
so i said which film to do?
that film, that film, but that thing there.
i went and i didn't actually do that film.
reena and loser and ruchi are natural for me
the key is waiting outside for ice cream
when the meeting ends with whatsapp, we
come tell me what happened
so i came back and said brother i
if told then whatsapp is very sweet to him
was very encouraging but now i want that movie
i am not doing it
the one opportunity i got with whatsapp
it won't happen now, we will see further.
actually karishma that very turning point
it was for me that i followed my heart and
it took me a lot of courage to do that.
i don't have the courage to say this
so that i don't have to
and when i do that and say no when i come back
come suddenly, i feel a strength.
it happened when i was at my weakest.
i also want to spend time with my dreams
not compromising
that gave me a lot of strength and then the next
dawa: when someone came to listen to the story, i learned more from him.
my
i will remain firm on this decision.
grew stronger
and then after that i chose the same movies
whose story i liked so that i can guess
apna apna did not go on time but
i like d film so if not my film
it worked but i liked it don't mind
i will do it when i want, from then on
rangeela raja hindustani all these movies
whatever i chose, sarfarosh, i followed me.
heart lagan to i stop going by people
people think i'm a perfectionist
i take decisions after thinking carefully.
this is nonsense
i used to think before when i
used to make mistakes
now i take decisions only from my heart
my heart tells me stars are on the ground
i have to make a decision and my thinking will speak.
don't do it brother, he is being stupid, dare you.
she is not going to walk, she has dyslexia.
i look for magic on film
i want magic, not perfection
oh before
in 1986 and our marriage on 18th april 86
but we got married in 86.
and my first film came in 88
so when meri qayamat se kama 2 was released
i got married a year and a half ago
i was married before. are you there?
balancing personal and profession because that
working three ships
you get no time to be with green and it
was one to life but reena came you spend time
together also i and sam live together
i used to cum while living together and i used to cum at home.
i stay at home a lot and i go out a lot.
and reena and most of us
best piece you go for dinner it is very
loser friends
have to take care of
which has turned out to be quite a thing