This compared to this profile shot It was shot here. But this is the final scene. Okay. She was telling me earlier. Put you under the bus. He doesn't speak much. You also don't speak much. This is I told you. Right? I told you. Right? When you speak Tamil, I can understand it because I'm also a South Indian. Oh. And I've grown up all my life in Bangalore. Bangalore. So Kanadega? Kanadega. Half Karnataka, half Kankuni. Dad is from this town near Udupi called, and mom is from Mysore. Have you been to Bangalore much? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah? Eighties. Yeah? Quite a lot. Used to work for Kannada industry a little bit. How is the Kannada industry? Kannada industry is now rocking. Right? There was a dormant twenty years. Nothing happened. Mhmm. Out of the grades. Mhmm. Now they just leaped. I met, I sometimes wish all of them. I call them Zoom and wish They're doing much better. Music composer Yeah. And everybody. So you grew up in, Chennai? Most of your life has been in Chennai? Most of the life in Chennai. Yeah. I was born in Chennai. My father, yes, he's work used to work in the studios. Mhmm. And then we we are in the belly of the beast near Korumbakam. Okay. Our house, where all the studios used to exist. Yeah. So maybe we start by making you a little bit awkward and getting you to speak about your life so far. Everybody knows you. And, I'm a fan. I've heard so many of your songs from different eras, and I love them. I wish I could sing better, and then I would have, but I can't. My mother used to be a music teacher. Oh. Classical Carnatic music, and they tried to teach us everything. So I went to classes for guitar, piano, flute, mandolin, everything. But I discovered after much effort that I have zero talent. Oh, it's not about talent. It's about leaning in. Yeah. Never give up. Tell us a bit about your childhood. It feels like you're a or from what I've heard, you're very introverted. Yeah. And now you're more open to speaking because as you have said, your ability to articulate has gone up significantly. Mhmm. What changed? I think when I was growing up, I was went through all this the death of my father, my grandmother, and then conflicts where I was just seeing trauma every day. And my mother was a single, very, very confident lady. She took all the pain. At what age did that possibly? Nine. Mhmm. And she had to go through protect us from and she was so strong that withstanding all the kind of humiliations, she sincerely brought us up. Right? Encouraging me to go into music. She decided for me that I should be in music, so I've told her told her many times. And so in a way, I felt like I should be clean because I had three sisters, and me behaving in a certain way would also reflect what's coming back. And I was my whole childhood was with 40 year old and 50 year old, 60 year old in the studio playing music. And I missed all the fun with friends and all that stuff at school. No college. But What year did you stop going to school? '15, '16. Same, actually. Me also. Me also? Mhmm. School is not just about education. It's about understanding humanity. It's about seeing each other and getting to know the stories and learning things from other kids. You know? Their families are different. That I missed, definitely. But then I I got the I was with intelligent people in the studios, great musicians in the studio, which also inspired me to reach up to more musicality and play more stuff. And Your dad was a successful He was. So the story is, like, dad lived in his, in his house, father, mother's house, and both mom and dad, their clothes were thrown onto the streets, said get out of this house from his family members. So he had to go search for the house. So he took a rented house. And then to get us a house, he worked day and night. Mhmm. Worked in three different places at the same time. So that one story is that his health went bessek. Because he anyway, that's the dark side of my childhood memory. That's why I never speak with my dad. You have vivid memories of this age night? Yeah. Yeah. I think, after that, to forget what the trauma took ages. Right? And has that memory changed? Now it's changed. Because I think you're such an inspiration because every musician came from his, troupe, whether it's a guitarist or violin player or because he had he had given so much work to musicians because he was working in different places, and everybody used to adore him. Even if they're not talented, you'll put them you sit in the last row, take some money and go. It'd be good for your family, good for your education. Even people like, world class players like El Subramaniam had kind words to say. He shared with me, like, a couple of years back. So even now, even today, that probably set the standard for me to where I should head as a human being, as a successor to him. And now my nephew, GB Prakash, is shining. He won the national award twice. He's a hero. And my son, my daughters. Yeah. And how did that change you? Like, my dad passed away recently last year. Oh, sorry. No. How does it affect you first, and how does it change you later? It affects you because that's the only thing you you have. Right? Your parents. Mhmm. That's the only holding ground for you, the memories and what your dad is, what he represented, or how he worked. And, so to everyone, your dad is your first hero. Right? Your mother is the angel who was a safe place to go. The lab is the safe place to sleep, and that's why the respect for my mother or my father is still there. Same thing. So Did the position of your mother in your head change after your father's demise? Yeah. My mother became like a entrepreneur. She took the equipments and started renting it out. Everybody suggested that they should send sell all the stuff, put it in the bank, get the interest in. She said, no. No. My son will play. I'll keep my husband's stuff. And then she expanded it. She bought more keyboards for rental. Used to rent it out for light music for studios. So that was the income for, like, six, seven years. And then that stopped because everybody started buying the equipment. That's when she said, now it's not gonna happen. You need to go and play. The equipment rental has gone down. And And you started writing jingles? No. I started playing keyboards for other composers. Yeah? Like Kelegu composers, Kannada composers, mister Elijah, T. Rajendra, MSV, Raj Kothi. Like, multiple composers. Like, every day, there are two songs. Every day, they'll be like, I go at nine, I come back at ten. And do they tell you what to play, or do you have to come up with it? Yeah. They have to They will they'll give you the notes. But after a while, I think when I bought my computer systems, my which is around 86, I they gave me the freedom. They'll just give me a melody and I say you arrange it. So I'd arrange all this stuff for them. So that I got used to arrangement. But that it was easier for me to arrange then. They'll say, okay. Just do a fight music. So I'll have to create a fight music with rhythm and large two d bangs and stuff. If you could pick one instrument and never play another again, which one would it be? Piano, maybe. Yeah. It's hard to travel with. Right? It is. Like a guitar you can just carry? No. But keyboard is like you can you can have a smaller one. Right. The electronic one. Right. But having a piano, I could only afford after probably six, seven years of my earning. Then I bought a Yamaha. Then now I have Steinway and all this stuff. So for a few years, you played with other composers. Almost ten years. Ten years. And then they started first telling you what you should play, and then allowing you your own compositions or arrangement. Yeah. And then? And then slowly went into jingles, which everything is mine. Right? My By jingles, you mean ads. Right? Ads. Yeah. Like in Tamil? No. I think jingles because most of the agencies are international agencies. Right? O and M, HTA. They would do the scratches here, and they will throw that out and do it in Mumbai. And then after a time, I think they've started agreeing. They started putting out my stuff. They initially do scratches. What is a scratch? Scratch is a tune where they just give it to the client to say, if it's a ointment or a paint. And they say, okay. Yeah. This will work. Now go to a bigger jingle composer and get this. So then that became like, okay. Now this itself is good enough, and we can use it. Right. So that's the process. When did it all change? When did it when was that '91. Yeah? I know. Actually, magic happened when I build my studio. It's '89, Punjatam Studio which I have. Mhmm. Is when I felt, like, empowered. Like, I had something which nobody had. Which was? It's my home studio. Why did that change so much? Many people probably had access to a studio. Right? No. Those days, studios means, like, the big halls where 90 people can play together. The the concept of home studio never came. So when I build my home studio is when I realized, like, nobody will judge me whether I do good music or bad music. I can judge it myself and play the final product. Because in studios, whatever you play, 50 other people are watching you. If you you're bringing a cube and they're all coming, oh, what is it? What is the new stuff? How many people are gonna lose jobs? Mhmm. So I was the gizmo guy. Right? I used to buy the computers and So if I want to become a musician in my life, or if people watching want to become a musician, what is that thing they have to do now? Like, you got a studio. Is there some equivalent for today? You just have to practice. You just have intention to learn. You can learn anywhere now. What if I'm already learned? Like, I'm not not me because I have no knowledge, but somebody who is a learned trained musician. You come to Chennai, come to my concert with me called k music concert with me. You'll join there. Right. And there you will teach me how to compose music. Everything. Any course. Like piano or voice and yeah. Okay. So you started a studio at home and then? And then I started experimenting my own music, which nobody had heard. But Mani Ratnam came and I played them all. Mhmm. And he was quietly listening to all the stuff. That listening session became the DNA for Roja. Mhmm. And then Roja changed everything. Mhmm. Immediately? Yeah. Overnight. Yeah? What year was this? '91, I think. '91. Right. So Roja released, and next day Roja released. People started treating you differently altogether. Yeah. Because he's he's one of the top directors. Every actor, every composer wanted to work with him. Right. He's one of the top notch still. I feel like everybody is drooling over to work with the money at the moment. Whether it's a success or even the process is so respectful. The same is true to for you. You know that. Yeah. Absolutely. Oh, me. Okay. Yeah. And then everything changed. People around you treated you, changed. How did you change? How did I change? I was like, okay. This will be the last movie. I don't want this. I don't want movies. I've been in movies, and it's so boring. But the movies are completely different. And he kind of listened to me. Like, this is what I wanna do, or I don't wanna do movies. Then I told him, like, I said, I'm very satisfied working with you. I don't want to work with other people. He said, no. No. No. No. You should work with everyone. So I said, I'm very happy working just with you, and I'll do jingles or I'll do private albums. I said, no. You should work with everyone. And, so my first ten years was like, okay. Enough. After this movie, I'll leave everything. I'll do my own stuff. Even movie was my own stuff, but I have something to learn from. Why do you think that was? I don't know why. I had this thing of leaving everything. Is that because fear of disappointment? Is it No. No. I was resisting, I was resisting the the way the movie industry was consuming because my father was consumed. Right? And after he passed away, only a couple of people were there, and nobody else showed up. So that's when I like people have their own lives. Then you realize they all have their own lives. You were thinking this high will go away. Not the high. No. I said, like, it is a tankless. Any any industry, it's it's not a community. We just meet at studios. Very rarely do musicians meet. Right? So after he passed away, it is not a government job. There's no pension. Nothing. Right? Musician job. I said, if they are like that, we also have to be careful in not giving every part of us to the industry. We should have soul left with us so that I can do other things in art. Do you still feel that way about movies? I always I always that's one of the reasons why when other composers were doing 30 movies a year, I felt I would do two. I started with two and then three and then four, then became 12. Then I I escaped to resist, people coming to me. I went to England and sat with Randall Royber doing Bombay Dreams. The reason is to resist and grow. Because I'm giving away all the stuff I learned, but I don't have anything new to offer. I'll be thrown away. So it's important to evolve artistically as a musician, composer is when I think the the the foundation of what I'm doing now is probably my time in London, my time in Hollywood. Not doing music, studying, going for short courses, you know, and connected with music, but Mhmm. To understand art art in a very different way. That's crazy that you're still learning to the day. Learning in a way because it you're forced to learn. You buy a new rhythm machine, you have to learn how, where the where to project load. Most of them are common. Right. But even there, many stuff is changing. Right? Now there's granular synthesis, there's algorithmic composition. There is now AI assisted editing, arrangements which, all the masters have done, like Bernstein Mhmm. And Gershwin Mhmm. And John Williams. And it's fascinating to see the older, Tchaikovsky or Mozart, and there's always things to learn. Not to copy, but to understand the to speed up your orchestration, and even studying songs about poetry, about metaphoricness, about not straight words, but where it's hitting you. Did you feel any imposter complex in this period where you thought you were undeserving of what you got and hence yeah? Always. That's why I surrender. Does this also translate into personal life where you might spend a lot less money than you can afford to? Like what? Like, say, as a very wealthy man, you can afford to live x lifestyle, but you live 10% of that or 20% of that. My son is listening there. Does he Yeah. I think I think because it it's not that I'm not, I feel like if I can sustain like, my mother, god bless her, she used to give I don't know, on Friday, she used to give food. So doing one thing and for certain number of people, she used to feed them. We're still doing that. She didn't feed on every day. And on a on a bad situation, you cut all the stuff. We're able to do that by the grace of God even now. That's consistently doing something good for a longer time is better than doing everything at the one time and then not having money. So I believe that consistency is very important. Your lifestyle, even whether you have money or not, can be the same. Because when I was doing Roger, I didn't have money for even putting petrol because I was just doing that one movie because I had concentrated so much. And there are days where I didn't have my petrol was I used to drive that time. It was zero. And I felt like it's a good feeling because you're sacrificing all that stuff for the believing in what you're doing. Right? So it's important that even my children realize, like, to be consistently in one lifestyle. You can travel. You can eat anywhere you want, but you don't you don't want to show the whole world, like, what you are. And then it's it's a fake, pompousness. Right? And, anyway, the in Chennai, I think it's it's a city which makes you be simple. It's not unlike some other places where they don't hug you and see what you're wearing Yeah. To back. Yeah. I would ask myself when I like, Delhi and Hyderabad are on one side, and Bangalore and Chennai are on the other side of where projections sit. So I I would think why is it appealing to Bangalore and Chennai to live under their means, And why is the opposite the whole showing, living in the moment, more appealing to the There's nothing wrong in I think it's the way I think is consistency over years rather than, you know, you can buy the best car, you can buy a Bugatti, you can be in the best flat. But then, ultimately, where do you get the happiness? In the studio. So if you look at my studio, I have a the most expensive piano, the most expensive mixer, but that's, again, helping me to serve better. Right? So it's a little old school, but I believe it. When I thought about this, I I was thinking about things like, okay. Maybe North India saw so much war. So many people invaded. People did not live for as long, so they live more in the moment. People in the South have largely been secure for a long period of time. Nobody's secure. Relatively. They have other tortures in life. Yeah. It is a double edged sword. When when we go out, it's important to present India in the best possible way. Because the whole world think India is in poverty and this and that. I feel like India, there's certain people who are not in poverty. We probably have the richest Indians here. Yep. And it's important to express in the country with dignity, to dress up, to show that we are culture people. We have a great history in culture and style and everything. It's very, very important. You don't wanna show them they're very simple than when people are judging you. You know? As an Indian, I feel like I want to be in the best representative, the best car outside. When I when I go and I'm in LA. I have Bentley. I lease a Bentley. So, I mean, at least I had that time. I think at least I had that time. Right? So Why a Bentley fan? Because it's easy. It's it's cheaper. You had to pay it 110% duty here. There, you just lease and Right. But is there a reason get any car. Like Yeah. Can As an artist, the style aesthetic of Bentley appeals more Not like that. I because I never believed in that and because it was so cheap there Right. To to rent any car. As I said, I had the moment of two years driving my kids around. Hey. Come. Let's go. And I have still the videos of my son screaming when I'm going fast, sitting in the back. And you started driving when you were really early and still enjoy driving? Do you still drive? I do drive. Started driving again. I got my Mahindra electric car. And, there I have, Why Mahindra electric car? I don't know. I just I just love it. For the first time, I felt like it's world class quality. And, I also worked on it. I was also constantly suggesting them do this to them. The sound system, man, we have some of the best. My music sounds the best in that. Yeah. So you're part of the design. I'm not getting paid for this. Okay? So it was like a hobby project? It was something very different. I think Hans Zimmer had done for BMW. Uh-huh. And, I mister Velu, who's the CEO, like, he came in and we had fun. We yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And beyond Roja and the initial success, what happened after that? Also, were you in some way on the cusp of a change in trend of what kind of music was working in India in the nineties? Did you catch a change in trend, or did you create a change in trend? The trend happened because of the project. Right. What was the There was a denial that, oh, this won't last. And I think there's a denial constantly for What was the incumbent trend, and what was the change in trend? There was a traditional kind of music, which is beautiful. Like? The Hindi composers were all there, and there's a beauty in it still. But because I'm not made of that, my sensibility was different because I was in a band. I like jazz. I like rock. I like, you know, kawali. I like Carnatic. I like Hindustani. So my aspiration was very expansive. I didn't wanna stick to that dolich and, mandolin kind of a this thing I wanted to because I could do it. Because I I was now experienced in arranging for other people and Right. Also seeing the results. And I had my own studio, and I could get to the results faster than imagining it without people judging me. So you changed that trend into Roja kind of music, and how would you articulate that? What was Roja kind of music? Roja was very so my intention was, when I met Mani Ratnam ji, I said, when we are listening to Pink Floyd Right. Queen Right. John Williams, Evangelist, Beatles, Michael Jackson. Mhmm. They don't listen to us. Right. So what's the reason? Language, production, and, vibe, feel, recording, multiple things. Right? So I addressed all this stuff. I was studying all this stuff. I addressed all this stuff. I said, Tamil song, which we do here, should go and my if you look at my Internet, initial interviews, it says, each Tamil song I do should go around the world. Right. And it was planned. You know, I worked for it. That's why I did less work. And I had to a lot of people thought, okay. This guy is, like, very adamant and, you know, snobbish. No. So not. My human limitations are I need time to heal. I need the time to listen to it. I need time to change. I need to evolve a song into what present shape. It's not like I could do a song three songs in seven seven hours. So because I knew all the formulas. That's not what I wanted to do. Right. I wanted to take it inch by inch to what I felt would be the future of my sound or the world. Indian classical music never had its day under the sun per se. Like, at some point, rock music was cool. At some point, jazz was cool. At some point, I'm saying across the world. In India, obviously, Bollywood is very, very popular. We need to position classical music in a very higher way. I think right now, it's like, I I give this much money. I can get a teacher. No. Yeah. Getting a good teacher, getting the they say heart to heart transfer of knowledge, mind to mind transfer. You know, spirit not just the knowledge of ragas, but the spirit of giving from a guru is only India sees that. It comes in, you know, the saints and the Sufis. It's not just knowledge. It's giving the prayer and the soul actually wishes something and manifests. Right? The product has to be truthful. The product has to be sincere. When it's sincere, they they grab it. Because if you look we look at all the the voice talent shows, they pick the best compositions, usually. They pick because it's tough to sing and it shows the prowess of the singer. That's very important. So even that, even classical music, the way it's performed needs to change. It needs to be more immersive. Mhmm. And that's what we're doing. I have a band called Jala, which Mhmm. And And we're also floating a a ward called the Bharat Mastro Award to find the next Zakir Hussain, next Ravi Shankar. Of course, not Anushka Shankar is there already. For India, we need to find them and then nail them that these are the masters of India. Like, recently, I did a song called Muthamari in Tag Life. Mhmm. It's a very complicated song. Mhmm. They embraced it so much. Mhmm. Embraced it, and it became a talk of for three months, they were talking about the song. But it it has multiple ragas mixing and going in. And if we put our energy and mastery in how we deliver the songs to people, definitely, they'll like it. It should not be then, you know, I'm giving you classical music. Listen to it. It's good for you. No. Give something good and make it masterful with the whole team, like the dance and creativity and everything. They will take it. Definitely. Hey, Rama is a classical song. The narrative is how you make them feel. It's the most important thing. Like this decor, it feels very inviting. Yeah. It feels very, it's welcoming. It feels like somebody's It feels lived in. Right? Yeah. That's very important. Yeah. It's all from age old. Like, those pillars are temple pillars. That door is from a temple chariot. They're all from South Indian. I I think you will also find it familiar because it's largely South Indian stuff. Yeah. I love South Indian stuff. Yeah. Same with the Peace Corps. If you come to Peace Corps, if you come to Chennai, I'll take you to Yeah. Which is a combination of South Indian temple architecture, Sufi architecture, mix up all this stuff. Yeah. But Indian art seems to be making a comeback. Not enough, I think. No? I think art should be taught artistic view should be taught to the kids from kindergarten. The way they keep their houses, if the every house in the street is kept well clean, the street is gonna look beautiful. When I went to Italy, that's what I found. Or if you go to Jaipur or a Kerala, they have a sense of style which and neatness and I'm not saying I've I've not been to many states, but I feel like, that's very important to inject that in the minds of younger people who will change the look of a country. Western cities are very homogeneous. Like, every building will have the same color. That is US. But if you go to places like, even Italy, Greece is different, Spain is different, Morocco is different. They all have a character. Don't you feel like Indian cities have every building which is so different and the color is so different that it doesn't look cohesive? No. It doesn't. Anyway, let's not talk about that. But important thing is to, nurture children from kindergarten. So they look at a country in a way where they'll be the future. People will change the way it looks better, like AI. I think creativity will become more relevant in the world of AI. Absolutely. Because I think you're empowering people with with a vision Mhmm. Who don't know the chops. Mhmm. And the chops are actually AI. So Mhmm. The vision and the prompts actually gives you options, which you see, oh, I like this. Mhmm. And it's a very empowering tool for for younger people who don't have the access to make a movie or make art or they know how to paint, but they have a vision, at least it'll force them to have an example to empower of what it's creating to beat that. Right? Which is a interesting thing now, I think, when you do music also. Mhmm. We are constantly thinking now you know, the songs which are coming out are very experimental. Like, the recently, there's a song by Ray, ariyayi. Mhmm. And it clearly shows that she's trying to beat AI. How is that? The way the construction of the song, is different from what people would do, which what AI's copies. Right? It's learned from the past. So So you have to be contrarian to whatever the predictive model is. Absolutely. Yeah. It forces us to think differently. Okay. Now we've got that. Okay. How about this? But can't tomorrow, another AI just play the role of quantum? This evolutionary spirit, and we will do something else. We'll go back and do something which is completely wrong, which would be very cool. Does music have rules? Music, I feel, I go by nostalgia. I go by, the good things of tradition. And sometimes I got bored with that and I break the tradition. So it's not one formula. It like, how how a narrator so, like, when when I'm talking to you, if I talk anything boring, you won't look at me. I was like, oh, he's already told us. And you'll look away. But I'm looking at you. I'm constantly evolving. I'm saying, like, hey. Let let let me tell tell you the stuff, or let me tell you a new information which you don't know, then you are curious about it. Right. Music is like that. It's like a conversation where, one is like, this tune is going like this, and I need to surprise them with this one. Pull out the rhythm or change the key or change the rhythm. Mhmm. Right? Change the raga. Mhmm. Or come with the same lyric in a different way. So it is an experience. Right? That's how I used to think. I'm still thinking the same way. Do you think to be as successful as you have been, you need to catch a counter trend? What is a counter trend? Whenever the incumbent trend, like you said about old school music with dolach and mandolin and all of that. No. I love dolachs, but not at all. But that's not the only thing. Right. You know, even now, when I do a kawali track, I use dolach and tabla, and I do I use strings. But in my But to be able to recognize that people are tired of that and I am the people. I need to see whether I like the song. And if I feel good, yeah, this this feels really good, and they will love it. Sometimes it takes time for them to get it. And they get it, and then it stays there forever. And for all the aspiring musicians and songwriters and composers watching this, what do you think the next change in trend will be that they can get on early? I think all of them are so smart now. And because the exposure Mhmm. They get to see everything on reels and on social media. Every person is a makeup person, an actor, a cinematographer, a director. And it's fascinating to see how the younger people are evolving. Like, I discovered so many people who are extraordinary in comedy Mhmm. In direction Mhmm. In effective, you know, reels. Like, it's just thirty seconds, and Right. They have to come up with stuff. Right. And it forces them to become great directors, storytellers. Mhmm. And so I get inspired by them. Mhmm. Yeah. But any any suggestions? Lean into it. Mhmm. Leaning into something, not giving up. Like, you shouldn't give up. You should go back to music and lean into it. I'll show you how bad I am at some point in the beginning. Subjective. It's subjective. Right. One person's bad, the other person's good. Mhmm. Like, you know good music when you listen to it. So I'm good at listening to music. That's that's a good thing. Start. It's a great start. Right. That's how it is. Right. The lean would just don't give up and because, you know, you dig. Like, the the cliche is, like, first, you get mud, and then you get water, then you get petrol, then you get gold. Mhmm. So but you have to keep digging. Right. And the more you dig, you will you will forget yourself that you'll become that. Right. How do I okay. This is very personal. I don't know who this will help, but I can play a few chords. I don't sing well. Now I want to suddenly get better. Not suddenly. In a year, get better. How do I do it? Just practice. Practice. Yeah? Yeah. Don't wait for tomorrow to practice. Practice now. Once you go, have to eat, sit for five minutes, take your tampura, play. Yeah. Sing. Yeah. Slowly. I've heard it all my life. I don't know why it flew. I have to tell you a secret. I'm singing from '92. Uh-huh. But then my singing was always to compose. Right. Right? I was I'll play a chord, compose. Then I realized that when I'm composing, I don't have to be in tune. I just need to understand what tune. When that becomes a habit, your singing becomes more, not that perfect because you're trying to reach notes and you're trying to like, scribbling something like painting, sketching something. Then when I'm on the stage is when I realized, like, I have to be in tune because people are recording. People are putting it on YouTube. Then I started, my teacher said, who passed away. So he said, practice your lower notes, like, go. Make it stronger, and your higher notes will be as strong as that. So and now I'm learning a little bit from. And his thing is, like, go and go louder when you go down. And that made a lot of difference in my pitch. When I'm singing a note longer, I could feel that I'm in pitch. And when I look at some of the readings, I'm like, yeah. Okay. That's good. That's good. 20% improvement of what I was doing. Right. So there's no time, no age. Right. We are constantly evolving in every aspect of it. Yeah. Maybe I'll try and get a teacher. That's a great idea. Right? And Bombay is filled with teachers. Yeah? Yeah. Do you think there's such a thing as talent in music? There is. Some people understand something better than other people. Mhmm. Because it comes the way the mind works. Mhmm. It doesn't mean that other people can't reach there. Mhmm. Right? I have this theory about passion. Okay. I feel like all people are born the same, and we all attempt different things. If I was five years old and I played cricket, and I played cricket better than the 20 classmates of mine, I would organically become passionate at cricket Mhmm. Because I'm doing it better than the 20 kids around me. Do you think the same is true for music? No. And when I was young, I felt I was very bad at music. Yeah? I had stalwarts like Madeline Srinivas was a genius. He would play he was younger than me. He was playing. I said, I'm not as good as that. And I was seeing my teacher's son playing piano. He was younger than me. But I was forced to work anyway. So my needed talent was less because I should play some sound effect or some simple melodies. And I met a teacher called Jacob John, who's my father's friend. He called me and said, you you play very well. I said, no. I don't play very well. And he had this amazing technique. He would wantonly play with mistakes and he would let you play. See, you're playing better than me. So he had this incredible technique of trick to make you feel better. And I hung out with him, like, three, four years. It's one of some of the best times I had with them. I must also say you look incredibly young for your age. Like, skin is glowing and all that. That's Any secrets? Secrets? Uh-huh. Just don't think negative stuff. Don't worry about anything. Nobody cares. We're all gonna die one day. So all this happened. Okay? Yeah. And then I've I have, like, notes about different years of your life and what happened, and I'm trying to, like, go into today. You did Andrew Lloyd Webber, Dil Seer happened, India at 50, all of that happened. We come to 2006. Mhmm. What's happening around this era? You started at nineties because of the studio. When you started a studio, you got this big break in Roger. Your life changed overnight. People around you started treating you like something else. You got a little imposter complex and insecure about putting all your eggs in one basket because you had seen it happen at home at a early age. You diversified. You continued to do many things. You went to Andrew Lloyd Webber's thing. You did things outside of India, in India. Tell us where your mind is at 02/1978, around this era, global slowdown era. So 2006, I was, appointed as the stop TB ambassador by UN. Mhmm. So I went, traveled to Singapore, met AIDS TB patients, and a very completely different role. I met Kofi Annan in the UN, all that stuff. And then that's when my foundation, idea of foundation came by. And by this time, you're a big deal because you're meeting them. I don't know. 100%. Yeah. I don't so I meet them. Uh-huh. I come back with vision of, like, why don't we have a school? Uh-huh. Like, you know, all these musicians of my father's age now, and what if they pass? And we don't have string players or trumpet players. So the idea of starting the school came at 2008, where I said I called one of my associates and said, hey. We have a school. It's a free school. He said, no. No. No. Free school, nobody's gonna respect. You have to get money, and I'll be there. And I'll take care of it. So I didn't know anything. So I took I called him, and he took care of it. And then there's so many conflicts, so many conflicts happening. It evolved, and then finally, we bought a bigger place. Mister Ambani came and finally inaugurated the place in 2013. My mother was there. And we started the KAM Conservatory where it is now, July. By then, we had some of the young best piano players in the world, young and once. Mhmm. And then it started evolving. And then Oscars happened, all this stuff, in 2008, 2009. I was in a band with Mick Jagger. And How big is that? Like, I've always heard of Oscars as being, like, this crazy ass thing that what is it actually? Like I think when you see from outside Uh-huh. It's much more fascinating Yeah. Than being inside. Yeah. Inside is just It's like our audience. Happening. Yeah. It's it's like, you know, once you get once you pass one, then everything's the same. Same same photographs are coming. Hey, AR. Look here. So that's interesting. First, when I call the critics over, nobody called me. Then then it was a Golden Globe. Hey. That's you. Come. Let's take a photograph. Three people called. Then the next one is Oscar. Mhmm. You know, 100 people calling your name. Uh-huh. So that I could see that whole evolution of how famous that movie and about the music and we're all becoming. And how does it make you feel personally? Like, now I'm guessing wherever you are, like, people are probably, like, surrounding you and asking you for this and that and pictures and No. Actually, I have a lot of private moments. In the studio? No. When you're at home, yes. But if you step out I step out very rarely. But whenever you do I'm prepared for it. When I'm very uncomfortable is when you take a long sixteen hour flight and you're in transit, then people come in. Mhmm. And I said, I'm tired. No. No. No. But we have to go. Can you take a photograph? Anyway, it's part of the game. Is there a on off button? For what? For when some fan walks up to you and he's and you're tired, you're in transit? Yeah. It is but rarely. It's not every day. So now I have the mask. They recognize you with the mask? No. No? Not everyone. Because I don't go with securities. I just go walk alone. No security anywhere? In Chennai? Only only when I'm doing shows. Right. Because when you don't go with security, people don't take you seriously. Only when, like, group of six people come home, somebody's important. Oh, that should be him. So When you go to dinner in Chennai, for example. You have to. That is the irony of my life. You can't. That's actually took a toll of my family life. When nobody allows you to eat and even in a marriage, when you go there, when you're eating, people say, can I take a photograph? I said, I'm eating. No. But we are gonna go. We have to go. So they don't understand that person is eating as a human being. He's not being bought by you. But then you understand that how important you are in their life, and and they don't wanna miss the chance to take their perspective. So I'd never eaten marriages. I just go, wish them, I said, they won't allow it. Whenever I worked with rock stars abroad, they just straight on the face. I don't do that. Sorry. Whether it's Hollywood actor or I've been with a couple of them, and they're they're straight on the face. That's why people don't come because most of them are there. They just snap and say, no. I don't do that straight away. Indian actors are more kind. Why is that? I think because we we are in a different race. We did a call with your sister. Mhmm. And, she gave us some points. Which one? Rehanna? Yeah. I think so. Okay. You didn't have many friends growing up, she said. Yes. I had two friends, actually. Uh-huh. Yeah. One was a electronic geek. Uh-huh. We used to love making amplifiers. Still met them. The other one was also electronic. Uh-huh. I was fascinated with electronics when I was young. Is it the same even now? Is it tough to be friends for somebody in your position? There's no time. Outside of time? Just even to spend time with family, I have to make sure that I now pull them on to a dinner or something where not everybody's free. They all have their own lives now. Right? Do you have friends? All the directors are my friends. Work people don't count. I don't I always treat like work. I treat like then I work with, Anand Rai or. People ask me this question and I say, who are your friends? I'll say lawyer, CA, all of that. It doesn't add up. It doesn't come. It's friends, friends. Then I should have a life where I go to a club. No. I go to a gym or something. Nothing? No hobbies? Sport, gym? No. Nothing? No. I love what I'm doing. I love because it's not just music now. Now it's metahumans and AI and this virtual reality. And, you know, I have younger people who are joining and doing amazing work. Mhmm. So they are my friends. I just eat with them, hang out with them. Mhmm. Each team is different. And yeah. And I sometimes DM people. If there's a good person with a farm, interesting plantation thing, I DM them, say, hey. I would like to meet you. Then no. It's like random people. It's not just music. It is illustrators and cosplay artists sometimes. Anyone incredibly you've run across like this by DMing them? By DM, I'm assuming social media. The the most biggest surprise I got was Spike Lee DMing me. Hey, sir. How are you? Really? Yeah. I was doing COVID DM on what platform? On Instagram. You're active like that. You use it yourself? Yeah. Yeah? Yeah. Can I message you on Of course? Yeah? But I I don't pick everything. I see sometimes people I see some blue oh, blue tick. What would be interesting for me to send you on Instagram? That will make you be like, thanks, Nikhil, for sending me. I have this investor who's got $1,000,000,000 to invest in the company. I'll be Yeah. Immediately a lancer. Yeah. And then next You went you went to The US and met a bunch of AI people. Right? Yeah. I do. Some of them are my friends. Okay. And they mentioned it. You went to perplexity. You went to who was the most interesting of them all? No. Actually, it's very, very brief. Sriraman Aarti came to my house, and we hung out there. And I met Srinivasan Uh-huh. Public city. Where did you make of him? Met, Samoan. Uh-huh. What do you make of him? Yeah. Yeah. He's very good. But he's my son's friend more than me. Yeah? Yeah. They hang out. Mhmm. And Sam Altman. Mhmm. What do you make of Sam? Sam, strangely, I was the only person I followed on Twitter for a while. Uh-huh. When Chahjeevili came in. And he was, like, he was looking at the Secret Mountain. He was fascinated, I think. Mhmm. He said, whatever help you guys need, in technology. Right? But I think this is not just Secret Bound is about fashion, merchandise, music, wisdom, entertainment. Quite a lot of big package and pretty exhausting if we don't have a big team. So that's that's one of the reasons why we are, like, waiting to for the big leap too. Mhmm. We're just preparing all the groundwork of that one. When you hang out with those AI guys, I I've ended up spending a reasonable amount of time with all of them. In fact, I have to go My first my first, comment with any AI person is don't make people lose jobs. Empower people to remove the causes of generational causes, which comes to, like, poverty, misinformation, and lack of tools to create stuff, to telling stories. Right? I think this is the from the beginning, I was like a broken record just saying this. Because you don't But how is that possible? That's if you buy a gun, you set rules. Right? You don't give it to everyone because they're gonna shoot everybody. They're gonna kill people. It's not free to use. It has restrictions. Like a counter Now you're not shooting people, but you can pull the carpet off, make them jobless. It's like making families going into poverty. So it is the rules. Humans have to set the rules. You have traffic rules. Mhmm. You have immigration rules. Mhmm. Your customers might kill jobs in the short term, one can argue that productivity in a society will go up in the long run. To shape it up and say, you can't productivity in a society will go up in the long run. To shape it up and say, you can't give a tool which is very, very destructive in making a family go into debt. Mhmm. If somebody just learn something and now everything can be done with AI, he's gonna be helpless because he's learned that in college for four years. He spent all his life learning something, and AI can do it in two seconds. So we need to find an alternate way before you jump and give those tools to people. Right after. No. Because Australia now has said, like, no no person can learn, use their data to learn stuff so that to create their identity. But the new AIs are learning of synthetic data. I'm gonna do stuff which humans cannot rather than doing the things which humans can do better. That's what I'm saying. Yeah. So that's why I think art plays a very big tool. Like, you need to make musical theater, symphonies, and all the stuff which can entertain people and that they can be a part of that larger system, economic system. The problem with regulation around AI, in my opinion, is the incumbents will use it to not allow new people to come into AI. If there is a young kid in Bangalore trying to build a AI wrapper, albeit Yeah. By virtue of regulation, he will be regulated out of the product. That kind of regulation. Not in entertainment. I'm saying in in finding a way that you all the people running things, the entrepreneurs or the Yeah. Chief, they should be careful in finding because this is history is gonna talk about them in future. Mhmm. Like, how they made something which is a monster as a Mhmm. Blessing. Mhmm. Right? It could become a monster. It's a blessing and a curse. Mhmm. I'm actually going back to The US. I've been there a lot this year. I've been, like, working, interning with these AI companies, trying to learn what what is coming up next, what can be done. I'm going back to the high school. Is Sacred Mountain has also set a pattern Yeah. Where we use the best of AI Mhmm. And we use the best of humans. Mhmm. And there'll be so many jobs. Mhmm. There's so much of, human contribution to something like big as this. So that it becomes, an industry by itself. Right. AI in music will hurt musicians. Right? It'll hurt, but then can AI go and sing with the guitar in a house or in a concert? Mhmm. Or can it teach in the human way which a teacher has been teaching with the spirit passing on the spirit of music to a student. There are so many things which comes. Human experience is the the best word, I would say, which it can't do. Anything on TV could be generated now. Right? So I I think that that's why live concerts, live dance, live musical theater, symphonies will be respected even more. Right? The value of that is gonna go. So in a way, you're saying build more live experiences, businesses for young people who want to start a business? Because we're all now locked in something called the flats, imprisoned in those little boxes. We can't even get out. So life actually gives goes back to that community feeling where you enjoy something which the other person share the experience of joy. And that, like, that is also being reinvented now, live experiences now, the way visuals and everything is time for sync with with augmented, musical gadgets Mhmm. Visual gadgets. Mhmm. So the experience is not as, like, how we watched ten years back. It's much more better now. When you work with people and you try and figure out what music should be put out, I'm guessing very often you know so much more about music than these people. I don't know anything. I I go, like, a blank slate because Like, if a movie producer tells you, for example, say in Hollywood, that this is not working, can we change it? What do you do? Always change it. I, I don't go with one idea. Right. I go with sometimes four ideas, five ideas. Then I throw out two of them. So I keep sometimes three. I play them. And sometimes you have an instinct to say, this is gonna work. Right? I put them somewhere. I think they'll connect to something. But it's nice, but can you do this? Yeah. I'll add that. It's not a ready made product which is given. It's that is why that'll never work. Somebody calls up. I do a song and send it to me. There's specifics about story, characterization, why which they like. So I I was reading this book about Michelangelo, like Yeah. Artist extraordinaire, all time whatever. And he was, like, once while he was sculpting David, a politician came to him and said the nose is too big. So what he did next is he just he was on a scaffolding. He threw some dust down, and he said he changed the nose, but actually didn't do anything. Okay. Exactly. It just A lot of that? Yeah. Yeah. It happens. See, See, now it's correct, and you don't know anything. It's just their ego. Yeah. See, I made it better Yeah. Sometimes. I was in Delhi couple of days ago, and I was at a friend's house, and I tried the new meta glasses. Okay. It's coming? It's coming. Yeah. Which have a so on the right side, they have a display, and you have to wear a band. Yeah. And then you click like this, and you scroll like this. For the first time, it's starting to feel like it could be the form factor. Yeah. Do you have a bet on what could be the form factor of tomorrow? How you interact with AI? So I started researching on virtual reality around from 2015. Mhmm. So I directed my first VR movie in 2016. And I was fascinated because it it's so real. It's so immersive. And it helps you to go to places which you've never been, like, the spaces you can you can see spaces which Antarctica, you know, the Vatican Right. And the Kaaba Right. The temple where plea people it's so real. Right? And I could probably look at one image for more than five minutes. It's there's so many details, so much detail in it. So it fascinated. And then I I said, why don't we do I had a story, and I said, why can't we do a movie in this? This is the path nobody's taking. It is a very difficult path. Lone Ranger taking in and working. So I did Les Musk now has been almost nine years since I directed that one. Wow. It's playing in Singapore, and it's playing in Vancouver Dome now. And you have to wear the VR glasses? In Vancouver, no. It's projected in the Dome. Right. It's been translated to dome thing. So my primary job is of a stock investor. Yeah. So I used to follow Meta now, Facebook then stock for the duration that they attempted to put a lot of money behind the metaverse. They would spend something like $89,000,000,000 a year if I'm not wrong about the number. And eventually, they ditched it. So does that they didn't ditch it or they stopped the amount of money that was being spent on it? I think what happened was for for making VR movies, you need to unlearn many things for content. So film people come and use their techniques to do virtual reality. It makes people throw up. So because I didn't have any experience in film, I could take the path of what I felt will be right for for me. So, like, moving the camera would be, like, for nausea, then Right. The frame rate, global shutter. And what kind of experience would be great for a person who's it shouldn't be a replacement for cinema, but but an alternate coexisting. Right? So what you don't get in cinema, you'll get on this one. And so now you get the kind of community feel, like, you all whistled on the same thing. You are all austek. I look at the other person. Oh, that's a great scene. You know, that you can't do in VR. It's very personal. You can't look at your Facebook, Twitter, and But you can have other people who are also in VR watching something with you. No. But this the ex like, when you come to Chennai, I play my experiences installed there. Mhmm. You'll understand what I'm talking about. Yeah. Mhmm. So I have no agenda today. I don't want to speak about anything. I wanna speak about what you want to speak about. So you Let me speak about the Meta Band. Yeah. Again, this idea came from when I was hanging out in LA Mhmm. After the Oscars, Grammys, and all this stuff. I said, like, why India is not creating something for the West? Or not the West, for the whole world. Right? Because we've seen great bands coming from, Sweden, America, England, Africa. But the only Indian was famous like Ravi Shankar, Zakir Hussain, Al Shankar, Subramanian. But then, why can't young India create something like that? Because we need to be ahead. We can't go back to what they did, but we need to find a space which India what India wants to say to the world. Mhmm. So that's where Secret Mountain was created. And not just to sing Hindi songs or Tamil songs Mhmm. But being a voice for from India to the world. Not like Indian voice, but an international voice. Right? So we've been working on it for three years. Can you simplify it for me? Like, I watched a bunch of videos of you talking about it. Yeah. I saw the characters who are the band members, the blonde guy, the the Punjabi guy, all of them, and they all said that my proficiency is in a and b Yeah. Yeah. And we are a band. Yeah. But what does that mean really? It talks about each community, each they where they're coming from, like Africa Mhmm. North India, South India, Ireland. She was the prettiest, the African. Yes. Yeah. We made sure that we gave her the full respect, especially Africa, Ireland, India, China, they have millions of stories to tell. Mhmm. But there's no conduit for that. But now if they're virtual Mhmm. They're now mentors for each character. So we we go into, like, this is what we wanna say. Is it okay politically? This is the kind of lyrics which I couldn't come. And their lyricist they're I'm composing all the stuff, but then we have partners like people like Ed Sheeran that promised to write songs for this. He was hearing a plus song. I love this. I wanna do something. So So these are virtual characters? Virtual characters. You are the mentor for, say, one virtual character amongst No. I'm mentor for the whole band. For the whole band. All of my digital children. Right. And they will create songs? They won't create songs. So they're human people. Like like, in a movie, a James Bond movie comes in. James Bond is a character. Mhmm. People keep changing, but James Bond is constant. Superman is constant. Spiderman is constant. So these people will be constant. Exactly. They'll be constant. The voices might change because they're all live voices. Right? Live musicians. Live musicians are gonna play with it. So it's not AI created content, composition, or anything. It's all live. They're only the face of that. Right. They won't have flash and blood, but what what gonna what's gonna appear on TV or or in a in a show will be real because because of the technology, hologram and And why would this be better than, say, if Ed Sheeran is writing a song for one of those characters? Mhmm. Him singing it himself and having his face on it? Because this is a multicultural band. They stand for the whole world. Yeah. There is no band like this. Either you see a k pop band who are all Koreans, an English band, they're all English. And very rarely you see this kind of eclectic, diverse band coming together. Right? And me being not in just one genre of stuff, and fellow music has taught me to be expansive. Right. Right? So I felt like taking the burden on myself to see how much I can go dwell in it, making it pop. I'm not able to picture it. Do you think an audience will I mean, the same premise, I guess, in a way, applies to movies where If you look at, did you see the Abba Voyager? Yeah. You saw that? The hologram. Right? Yeah. Yeah. So this is this is probably a diverse version and maybe seventh generation of that. Right. That was, like, created seven years back. Right? This is today's technology. Was that kind of playing on memory? Because everybody kinda Yeah. But then being a songwriter, and I just tested all the songs. And I was testing all the songs. I was trying to see whether they like the music or not. So all kinds of nationalities, like people from America, England, Ukraine. And it tested very well. At least four three to four songs tested like, I like the song. Not they they didn't mention the same song. Right. They mentioned four different songs. So I felt like, okay. We're on a good track. And end case, what will be happening with this? They will be performing. They could also perform in three different places too Mhmm. At the same time. Omnipotent. Mhmm. Because they're virtual. Right? They could be performing in England, in India, in Dubai all the same time. Right. The different different teams can come in. Right. And they could become a series. They could become a movie. Have you seen NFTs? Yes. This kinda like We started like that. It started like in a way when Hidara came to it started like, can we do a, you know, crypto NFT kind of thing? I said, like, we need a bigger idea. Right. The bigger idea is this. And let it let other stuff source come from here. Because even if that goes off, like, a fad, this will stay. The music will stay. The vision of this band stays and what they're gonna say. So it's a solid idea. So that's one of the reasons why even after three years, we're all excited about it. Every inch we move towards getting it out, we feel like because it's evolving. When we started, it was a game engine, Unreal Engine, and MetaHumans. Now we have AI technology, which enhances the face, enhances not generative, but face swapping and all that stuff, which might used to take a long time. And then even the capture is much faster. Mhmm. You can clean cleanse the capture, which sometimes you would have some stutters with these costumes. Mhmm. I can send you all the footage so you can close. To see it. Tomorrow, if there was a movie with, say, Shahrukh Khan and a particular actress, not really them, but artificially generated movie, would you watch it? There are so many movies like that. You don't even know. Half the movie is There are 100% of the movies. 100% of the movie. It depends on the story. You don't do what what a Shah Rukh Khan will do well. You don't try to imitate that. That's that'll be mediocre of this band. They have to do things which only they can do. They are they have the superpower to do stuff. Right? So that is important because I've seen a lot of people use AI, generated TV serial, which is you know, TV serial actors can do better than what this generates. But you do stuff which will be impossible for, production or to finance or to act and do and give that experience, which is transformative. Once you've been able to articulate an expression and expression and voice and program it in Yeah. Long term, these AI characters will inevitably AI characters. They are real characters. It took nine months to illustrate, get the nose, the eyes, the smile, and everything. No. But these characters will always do better than real world humans. No. That's we I'm the founder of that. Right. So I determined, and I've set the rules, the parameters for what, how much it can talk, how much money you can send to each fan. Mhmm. All this stuff will be said by our team, the founder. Why would it send money to a fan? That's the secret. So just to be, like, I think if they make money, the band makes money where can they share the money to with people who deserve and so that is the whole ultimate plan that they benefit not just by watching it, but, you know, that is the whole by going to things which humans might be corrupted, but with with the kind of transparency which systems can run and do all the checks and balances Right. It is possible. I know people have attempted this with social media where super users Yeah. Got a percentage of the traction or the revenue that the social media platform earned overall. So here you're saying because the success of the character is dependent on the amount of traction, which in turn is dependent on the fan, you would share a part of the revenue with the original fan. That is the plan. Right. And in future So you become the platform which collects a rake in a way. Even in the in the future, even the website will have all six of them. Right. You can talk to each of them. They'll answer back. This is not a real human answering back, though. At the back No. The parameters are set by all the data, all the all the all the information, or all the wisdom which each character wants to, which comes from mentors, which comes from the research of what does in Africa, an African person want the world to hear. What is the unsaid narrative about that? Or what does North Indian wants to what a South Indian I just put that because it's we are different. Like, the Punjabi is different from. Right? Yeah. And extremes, North and South. And a Chinese person, an Irish person, you have great history. The the great history in every character. And you would scrape news to figure out bias and narrative? No. It is just a from a common perspective and and a middle ground, I think when you look at things, there are a lot of unfair things which has happened to many many races. Mhmm. Like, undeniable. Mhmm. And even if you look at the genocide in Africa, which has happened, which is more than any other genocide in the world Mhmm. Is unfortunate, but the world it is not a political band. They're not gonna do political stuff. But I feel the gravitas of that is very important for, a band coming from India, which is just, which is pure in thinking, and which is entertaining, first of all, not boring, telling advice. Would it speak about society? Of course. But when you speak about society, you become political. I think you'll find the balance. Right. AI will help. There's this interesting debate happening in The US now where if I'm the New York Times, I'm the editor of the New York Times. If a journalist writing an article under the New York Times say something which is defamatory Yeah. I'm liable. Yeah. The same question then starts to apply for a large language model. Absolutely. If the output they are throwing out, are they liable? So much of a responsible. Yes? They claim not. No. But then that's why we have to set the parameters. Mhmm. I set the parameters. Very important. Sometimes you can't say the truth. Just keep quiet. Right. I think because it's music and because it's about entertainment, we don't have to go into that stuff unnecessary Mhmm. Conflicts. It's very important to entertain in a way where people get hope and faith. Mhmm. And yeah. Someone said a passion ceases to be a passion when you truly understand it. The good thing about music is you never understand it. It's constant evolution. That's why they say, no. Like, if you paint with the right hand constantly and you get comfortable with it, you know, tie your right hand and paint with the left hand. But then you will find a different way because your mind wants to express And the limitation of what, your left hand is will make its own art, and it won't be, like, the comfort zone. Oh, I can't do that, so I'll do this, and that'll be different. So music is also like that. Sometimes you just have to throw all the formulas. I have to rethink. I have to see. I have to get there, but I don't want to go in this route. Mhmm. I'll go on this route. Because you're the first listener. The maker is the first listener. Like, the cook is the first plaster. Right? Whenever I cook food, you don't taste it. No. Because I I don't know what it is. Like, whenever I spend half an hour, forty five minutes making something, I'm inherently biased into liking what I've made because of the opportunity cost of time that has been invested. You're less judgmental or critical of your No. I'm very critical. Right. When I, listen to it a couple of days back later or a week later, you you know what's working, what's not working. Mhmm. What makes you oh, I love that. Oh, this is boring. I've heard this before. I do a curation and then whichever thing I like. Sometimes I don't like anything. I go back to the drawing board. But how do you prioritize something like that where it's not it's not what is earning you your wage, but to focus on it enough to not give up. I think what happens when you do something constantly Mhmm. You get fatigued. Mhmm. Your mind becomes tired. Mhmm. And in in this case where photography or anything else, poetry or it's all part of the creative industry. It's not like gambling or going away from something, losing money. It is enhancing your widening your imagination, widening your confidence in you that you can do much more. Are you still able to do that? Pick up new hobbies? Yeah. Yeah? Yeah. Something which doesn't involve the display. Because all my life, I've been sitting in front of a display. So that's one of the reasons I don't play video games, any no PlayStation or Xbox and all that stuff because I I don't wanna sit in front of a and I wanted to try something organic. So I'm going might go into farming a little bit more. Are you farming now? Yeah. We have a mom's plot, the trust plot. So Near the house? It's one hour from Chennai. Mhmm. That's where her Samadhi is also there. Okay. This is on the work side. Tell us what's going on in the personal side. By personal, I don't mean, like, some controversial thing or anything like that. Where is your headspace at? How are you looking at society, at music, at what is occupying my journey? What's beautiful about the past, I would say, eighteen years is starting the foundation, starting the music school, and watching miracles happen there. You know, kids, and demolishing the whole stigma saying that this caste is intelligent, this caste is not demolishing all this stuff. If any kid who's created by God, this the light of God is in every kid, and the knowledge comes from God. It's not that they are worthy or not. If they're taught properly and we find those kids, they shine, they become an orchestra, and they all play together as one voice, as one emotion. So that's what we discovered, and it's a phenomenal breakthrough, which we are proud as a family. My sister runs a school. I go there. I'm the mentor. I'm the principal. Mhmm. And then recently went to Canada for the Glen Gold Foundation. They invited us, and they all played. It's such a great moment to see kids from corporation schools taking a flight, going to Canada Mhmm. And playing for, you know, billionaires sitting there. Mhmm. And that itself is a great statement, and that keeps me going. If I'm the principal of that kind of kids, I need to be shining more. I need to be working more, and that keeps me going. And, like, people ask me what keeps me going, is that I need to inspire my my school children there, my students, where we are teaching incredible artistry. Right? To sing or to play the piano, to compose Mhmm. To inspire. Yeah. Do you think humans can innately be altruistic, selfless? It is how we were brought up. I've seen many people, many many families, any religion. If they are coming from a great family, that if their fathers and mothers are selfless and they act upon it Mhmm. And they create a kind of a system where the kids automatically get inspired. They look up to their father and mother. If you go one level deeper Yeah. Why is being selfless appealing? I think it is hardwired. Like, if you look at every spiritual, teaching in the world Mhmm. Is to serve. Mhmm. Only when you serve, somebody served and build you this house. Somebody served and build the road. Mhmm. And they might be dead, but their soul is there in every and somebody built a school they do it with the intent of service, or did they do it with the intent of individual gain that they were chasing? Of course. Everybody needs to run the family. But when you think about, they're not they're they're you you can see the sweat. You can see the and everybody wants their work to shine. Right. When they want the work to excel, that means it's just so Excel is not mediocrity. Right? There's a sincerity is very important. The sincerity is what makes them tick. Mhmm. Get them another job. Mhmm. If I'm not sincere in my music, they're gonna throw me out from a movie. Right? I think you're way beyond that. No. I'm just saying. I mean, nobody. Yeah. Anybody can be thrown. Anybody can cease to exist. It is because if I'm not sincere to that thing, I'm not sincere to myself. I won't be able to sleep if if I let a mix pass by or a song which could be better, and I didn't work enough for that. That'll be the biggest punishment or self torture for me. For for at least three to four months, I should have done that, but I should have done it. So I never give that chance for my mind to torture me, even at the cost of getting a bad name from the producer. Right? Mhmm. So I'll I'll share a secret. I was going through some I would not say bad time, but I would say I was feeling vulnerable because of some issue being blamed for something that I didn't have anything to do with. And I was sitting and thinking about all these things. When I have been altruistic, is it because the projection of altruism has appeal? Because in the society that so if if I go back in time, when I think about it, all men are competing with each other at some level. The hunter gatherer, the the biggest hunter got more validation and importance in the society that he was in. So everybody wanted to be the biggest hunter at that time. And I think with evolution, society has kind of progressed like that. In the capitalistic society, the projection of being selfless is a value add. So I think we are spiritually oriented. Mhmm. If you believe in God, whichever God. There's only one creator. Right? We call them in different names. So if I take that path, they might be atheist. I respect everybody. I've taken that path where I feel like every breath is a blessing to me. Every opportunity is a blessing to me. And it comes from one source. It comes from me surrendering. Then I don't have to worry. I'll be truthful. I'll, you know Mhmm. I'll remember you. And he remembers me. Mhmm. And if my share, which he wants to give, has to come to me, even if the whole world is against it, it's gonna come to me. Right. Right? And if I don't deserve something and if I want that, if it's not my share, it it will never come to me. So simple to be peaceful. I take this as a formula. If anybody does so there's no cause of jealousy. If somebody's in a better car or in a better house or I said, his share is his share is coming. It's great. I love it. I praise God for that and may live happy. So you don't have the the root of jealousy is now killed. Mhmm. And if I need to be if I need something like that, my worthiness has to be improved. Once I'm worthy suppose I'm gonna get 100 kgs, I need to handle it. I need to take it. Otherwise, it's gonna destroy me. I've seen many people be given something which is very valuable, and that has destroyed their whole lives because they're not able to take that much. So each one gets what they share by becoming worthy of it. Become the vessel, empty vessel, which can and become cleaner, and then you'll get all that gift. I think this this over years, you realize that one. Oh, I didn't get that project. I didn't I'm not famous in this area. So if you become worthy, you'll get so Do you feel like that you are probably one of the proudest sons of our country ever? No. I'm just saying, like, we can get we sometimes when we're human. Right? Oh, that music is selling well. It it crossed 2,000,000,000 streams. I was like, fine. Right. So my share is always coming to me. Mhmm. And, I'm working for it. Mhmm. And each day, I'm trying to get become worthy of something else. Right? Mhmm. I know you follow Islam and Mostly Sufism. Because Sufism. My quest to religion was more spiritual. Because I've been in I'm a fan of all the religions. Right? Right. I've studied Christianity and Hinduism and Islam. I think every religion has something beautiful about it. But I also keep trying to figure out the intricacies of what makes one religion different from another and why one works depending on the My my problem my problem is killing people in the name of religion. I agree. Or harming people or abusing people in the name of religions. Not cool for me. Like, I feel like, it is a tool to discover greater things, and we had to go, which is the core of humanity. Right? And that's one of the reasons why I love music. Mhmm. I love to entertain. I think when I perform, I feel like it's a shrine. We're all enjoying the fruits of, you know, oneness in a in a stadium that you don't even know. Some people believe, some people don't believe, and they come from different nationalities, different languages Mhmm. And one sound and one happiness and one ecstasy, which is beautiful. That's what the wonderment tour is about, which I am doing. Can you tell me more about Sufism? I'm very interested. Sufism is Somebody gave me two books to read about this. Okay. The simple thing is to discover yourself. How do you discover yourself? Because you have screens. Your true self is, screened. And to remove those screens, you have to perish. So when you perish, you become a part of the the light. You're saying when you are alive, perish, take out ego in a way. Yeah. So it's like dying before dying, it seems. Right? What is death? The death of lust, the death of greed, death of jealousy, the death of judgmental design. Like Buddhism? Take away desire. This is different. This is, like, when you remove everything Mhmm. The drop mingles the ocean. That's it. When there's no drop, there's no ocean Mhmm. Metaphorically. Mhmm. So we are all in the process. We know some people achieve it early. And when they achieve it early, they go off. They pass off. So when that happens is your voice becomes the voice of God. Your deeds become the the deeds of God. Mhmm. Your your sight becomes the sight of God. So so your ego is gone, and then you become transparent to the divine. So this is the main essence of it. So when you say, the saints who are, like, or or, so they've achieved that status. And when you go to a place like that, you don't worship them. You go on a place where they're surrounded with spiritual beings, like angels who are praying constantly because that place is blessed. So when you pray there, it's effective much more to God than in a normal place. Same with the temple. It's like a gathering. Like, if you go in a place where intelligent people are, it it sticks to you. You get the knowledge. Right? Like energy, you believe in energy. Correct. Like, if you go to a temple which has, like, I go every year, you do feel a certain way. Yeah. There's a secret of every spiritual place and undeniable, I think. Every spiritual place? Yeah. If if people are going there, there's a blessing there. Mhmm. There's there's honesty. There is the commonality of faith is what I love. Like, you might be in a different religion. I may be in different, but the sincerity of the faith is what is measured, I feel. That's what makes you do good things. That's what makes me do good things. Not that I'm worshiping a god who's different. Right? So I might build a school. He might build a school. And but everything's benefit. Humanity is benefited by that. So I heard you say in another interview, karma. Karma? Karma. This is leading towards karma as the answer? I think in in in the belief of, you know, Sufism or in Islam, you're judged by your deeds. Right? Not by how much money you have, what car you have, or what how famous you are, what your deeds. The deeds so that's why we're all spiritual. We call us faqis, spiritual beggars. We might be rich in money, but poor in spirituality. And that's one of the reasons why I consider myself as a spiritual beggar. So I go to that because I sit near the beach or meditate just to get spiritually rich. And spiritual richness comes in in a material riches follows. Right? If you need it. If you don't need it, it's fine. And then there is a aura which comes to you and which is a blessing which comes to you. So your work becomes successful. You what you do with intention becomes more, appreciated, I would say. Yeah. I ask everybody what is spirituality. Some people tell me they ask me if I'm spiritual. I'm like, I don't even know what it means. What does spirituality mean to you? The good deeds, being kind Mhmm. To serve humanity Mhmm. And to be respectful to your parents, to your neighbors. Is that morality or spirituality? It is spiritual. I mean, these are all part of Sharia. If you look at smiling as a part of Sharia, smiling at someone is the biggest Sharia. If you don't have money to give, we smile at them. You know? So the beauty of, I mean, I'm just a student. I'm not an expert in anything. Don't take me seriously. Mhmm. I'm constantly trying to imbibe, and I don't read stuff. I want to experience things, and then I realize, okay. That's true. Mhmm. I don't read something and believe something which is, this is what it says, and I believe in it. But I want to knock at a door, I should get an answer. Whether it's music, whether it's spirituality, and that's how my life is. I test out everything. Right? So even music, when they say something is good, everybody says, oh, that's a hit song. Listen to it. If it's not good enough for me, I'll then throw it out. It has to do something to my heart. It has to do something to my soul. And that's why I don't care when some song some of my songs fail. I said, no. It's gonna come back. And three years later, what a song this is. I said, yeah. I knew it. So that self validation is very important to find believe in your work and find why it is not. So in a way, you wanna give more than you take if all Music is giving. Actually. Right? Music is giving. And I'm getting so much love from people. I'm so I feel worthless most of the time. So, like, do I need this? Do I deserve this? Makes me work harder. Mhmm. When I think of Indians, I think of, you know, politics. There is one person who comes to mind. I think of cricket, maybe Sachin and Virat come to mind. I think of artists acting wise, maybe, I don't know, Amitabh Bachchan, somebody like that comes to mind. When I think of music, not I, when the country thinks of music, you come to mind. They say that it's easy to be godlike if you get the validation and devotion that comes with being known as god. It's much harder for a normal person to be godlike by virtue of that. So who's the god? You're known as the god of god. I mean, god of music in this domain for sure. No. They just I'm I'm such a big fan. Like, your song, I think I must have heard that song through so many, like, heartbreaks and falling in love and stuff like that. And maybe you wrote it for a completely different reason. But Actually, you know, strangely, what happened was Mani wanted a he wanted a love song. I was like, what love song? And I was so famished, and I was, like, sleeping, and then this tune was coming. I'm like, It sounds so slow. So, anyway, it's coming. It's like coming in my dream. Right. So I took my I used to have a tape recorder, like a mini cassette, so I just recorded it. And so next day, I said, where is the tune? I said, I got it on tune. I was like, it's okay. Let's record. Then we recorded it. And so for the for the singers, I was I wanted SPB or Jai Sudha's. So I put also Hari Aran's name, and then I picked I don't know that anymore. So I prayed and picked one. It and Harry Arun's name. Right. So Harry is a very, very unusual singer for that song. Right? Mhmm. Why is that? Because he's a girl singer. Right. And even now when he sings concerts, he Yeah. Because there's all this stuff. He He doesn't stand on a note because it's that's his style. Right? Mhmm. So we recorded it, and then, Mani shot it. Then he called up. He said, AR. This song is doing something. I just put it on it, and it's magic. I think we need to do a BGM, you know, when she's running. Then we added all that music in it. So it had a interesting history. No. Incredible song. Love that song. But now that you're on this in this space, like, you're essentially God to all of us. No. No. No. No. No. No. No. I'm a servant only. How does that make you feel? It's a double edged sword. Right? Yeah. It's like they say there's no fame without blame. It just takes one second for people to completely turn the coin. So I don't take it seriously. As I'm sincere to what I believe in, and even if I shout at people, I say, hey. Sorry, guys. I'm human. Right? Sometimes the pressure, I shout at people. My You don't look like somebody who can shout at people. Come to my studio. Yeah? Not always. Yeah. You seem like you have a very calm I'm calm most of the time, but for me, my work sincerity is it demands a lot of if something is not happening, then I'm failing myself and failing the client. The friend When was the last time you shouted at somebody and for what? Yesterday. Really? No. Just because it's very demanding work. Right. And suppose we're having 77 tracks, and then you want the strings to be loud or even, you know, EQing a string. So Mhmm. I need speed. I like, musicians are passionate. Right? Mhmm. You don't want somebody to take, like, thirty minutes to get something, which I think could just take one minute. Is that what irritates you? Something taking longer than it should? No. No. I'm just saying, like, is my my voice will be a little louder. The dynamics will be, not cancel. Like, musical language, they say. Anyway. What are you looking forward to at this point? What what are you scared of, and what are you looking forward? Scared of? Yeah. All the scary things have already happened in my life. Yeah. My father's death, my grandmother's death, my mother's death. And, I'm looking forward And does it affect you in that order? It did. Right? It made me, like, completely numb. It made me in zen mode. It made me believe that everybody's gonna die. So it kind of catching on to something and loving something deeply is a is a, unfortunately Anti spirituality. It's not anti spirituality. As a loving, the true love is the love for God, I feel like. Every other love is tested. And when you say God, you you know, we are saying universe. The the creator. Mhmm. The creator. So and I think we can learn from everything, from the plant, from the sea, from the mountain, from the sky, from a bird, from a microorganism. Is that where your music is most inspired by nature? Absolutely. Mhmm. Also, mathematics of, and the complexity of every creature, every creation, and in the galaxy, we're just not even a dot. Right? And the multiple galaxies and makes you humble. How small you are, how the micro and macro they say. Right? Do you also look at that technically? Like, in my world of trading, we have Fibonacci sequences, the golden ratio of Mhmm. What and try to find that in music or create music No. I just go by instinct. I just go by Mhmm. What would be interesting and what would be a good combination of things. And What are you most looking forward? I'm looking forward to the success of Secret Mountain, if it deserves, because we are putting all our hard work, and we wanna create something extraordinary from India to the world. And because we we put three years of a life in it Mhmm. You wanna make this the most significant, entity from India to the world. Mhmm. Are you bored of movies? No. I'm never bored. Yeah. Because, you know, if a Western artist has to do an album, they have to think about it. I'm getting help from the script, from the director, from the screenwriter, from the lyricist. My part is just music. Right? So each album is different because the different combination of different consciousness comes together, and we create with the intention of creating something great. We push ourselves into and then we have live feedback. Each song is you know, how it's received and how people so that magic has not changed at all. Like, what do you get from people, that instant feedback and their adulation in the concert is a great thing. Mhmm. I never want to lose that. And if I wanna do anything, like, I wanna do a private album, instrumental album, or a collaborative album, I'm free to do it. Nobody's stopping me. The big project right now is Ramayan? There's Ramayan. There's, so many. Secret Mountain Mhmm. And, couple of English ones going on. And and an Arabic movie. A complete horror movie Wow. Called Bab. Then Namit showed me parts of Ramayana. Show. Yeah. It it looks incredible. Yeah. Looks sounds incredible. Thank you. Do you think there's a future to the movie business, the movie theater business? So theater business is not going anywhere. It's gonna stay, but it should be reinvented. Can you tell me how? Because over a hundred years now, we are still seeing a rectangle screen. Mhmm. And, of course, some three d and all this stuff comes in. I think immersive thing is the future. Like the spear, what what's doing in Vegas, everything looks so unbelievably spiritual, and it's something very human about watching with that quality. I've never been there, but I've seen the videos. Incredible. Yep. Yeah. I think that's the future. Because you can never get that in home entertainment or or a phone or anything. It's experience that kind of it's incredible. So you're saying everybody can afford a big screen. Not everybody, but a lot of people can afford a big screen at home. So the difference between a rectangle in your house and the rectangle in a movie theater can't just be 10 x the size. It has to be a bunch of other things. Exactly. Especially now because now that we have been bombarded with content, I hate that word, that you need to reinvent the way movies are made to get there so that they don't go to their, oh, it's boring. I know what's gonna happen. So let me look at who's, you know, Instagram me or what's happening. So that goes away because you're all stuck and completely involved. All the senses are active. In in LeMosc, we have scent, we have haptics, we have motion, we have three d, we have ambisonic sound. All the stuff comes in together, and that's a different experience. But can a theater screen afford that? That's not our problem. When people make money, they they would have to invest more money. But this Even each metro can have one. Right. Right? And, we don't even have a proper symphony hall in any of India. Nowhere. And musical theater is another important aspect of entertainment which could come in because we have so many talented singers, actors here, and they're all looking at movies. And if you look at, London West End or Broadway or Canada or Australia, they have musical theater, and it travels. Once you make one big hit, it travels all over the world forever for, like, years, forty years, fifty years. It's there. Look at Sound of Music or Phantom of the Opera. We have great stories to tell. And I've seen when I was a kid, I've seen, and that's it. Now I think the only one which I keep seeing is. Nothing is significant in India. I went for the Phantom premier at NMACC. Yeah. Incredible. And that's probably the one only place which is world class in India. Is it a chicken and egg problem because the discretionary spending power of Indian audience is limited to a certain number? Can you just think about an airport? Oh, the airport is very costly. Let's go on trains. We can't. It's a necessity for people need that. They they have a right to have proper infrastructure. It's very important. There should be enough places where which brings hope, pride, you know, entertainment. If you don't deliver that, they take a flight. They go to Germany, watch Han Zimmer and Phantom of the Opera in London, and they come and all are so great. Like, what about the person who can't afford that? Why they don't deserve that? They also deserve to see, you know, you are influencing minds which can become the next Einstein or Ramanujan or, you know, Steve Jobs. This is the way you should inspire them, not they don't need to see that only in America or England. Our country is now prosperous enough to it's important to be in a chorus to say that we need this. This is for future India, for our youth, for our children to experience all this stuff. If you were to give some advice, so our audience is I'm not I'm not good at advice. Our audience is largely wanna be entrepreneurs, young from India, who want to know what business to start, what company, what startup, in the live event space. Like, there's BookMyShow, there's District, there's a couple of concert organizers. If you could advise our audience to start a business in life, it's growing the fastest in terms of rate of growth versus other form of entertainment. What could somebody start? Simple thing. Is finding the void. I find void in in art, artistic stuff, fashion. Mhmm. Fashion has taken I mean, definitely coming, like, it's much better now. But even furniture, like this furniture you have here, you can't buy it. Nobody makes it. They make something very boring. It's copy pasted from hundred years back. There's no imagination in any kind of furniture which I see. Right. It comes from Indonesia or China or Malaysia. I see I see a void there. It's because of scale that China has in producing these. But we should have scale. We have, like, more population than China. Right? But they're they're producing for the world. So they get the cost. I see the same thing. Cannot export. Right. And electronics, we still don't have, like, my keyboard. I wish I play a Indian keyboard in my lifetime. No. It's from Japan or US or Germany or London. Never from India. Musical theater, of course. Mhmm. In my thing, definitely, musical theater, having an orchestra in every state is very important. Having a world class, like, a sphere kind of a thing. Mhmm. Changing entertainment. Entertainment is something which people need. People would. Mhmm. This But if a sphere cost $500,000,000 No. I don't think it's that. No? Everything's so slashed up. Like, all the LEDs, you get so cheap now. I mean, at that time, maybe it would have cost that much money. Not anymore, you think? Not anymore. I think definitely with the latest technology, it's much it's probably one hundredth of the price now. Nice. And you don't need that big a spare. Like Would that be something if somebody comes with a very interesting business pitch to build? One of our young friends, would you be interested in Bring them. Bring them. We will create the content for that. Right. We'll create everything. Right. Okay. I mean, I have no questions per se left. Last part. Anything else you want to say? Fleeting thoughts about the world, society. What are what is occupying your mind space that you're actually thinking about? Stopped seeing the news literally from 02/2001 after the war. Smart man. I think most people should stop. Whenever I tried, sometimes, you know, I forget and go into streaming and then see, and then I get sick. So I think the best choice for anybody is to look at your own family, your own welfare, your own parents, your kids, and be kind to your friends, to my neighbors. And because if you think about the world, what's gonna happen to the world Yeah. You miss what is gonna happen to your family. If you look after your family, the world will take care of itself. Makes sense. I think even back in the day, world was going through problems. It's just today we are seeing Now we're seeing everything, like, this close. Yeah. So every every problem looks, like, big. Yeah. Like, now we are wondering why is some crime happening in some corner of Africa. I'm sure it was happening fifty years ago. Absolutely. Not that we are insensitive about it. Yeah. I think we just definitely have to develop a great justice system socially. Right. But it's important not to get disheartened and lose your faith in humanity because you are humanity. Each one of us is humanity. Right. Our good and bad affects humanity. It's very important. K. Thank you so much for doing this. Would you like to finish with this song? Is it possible? I'll I'll send you a clip. If I give you a guitar, would you like to I don't play guitar much. I can play if you sing. If you tell me what chord to play. Wow. I don't know what blend is. I'm in the talking mode now. Bring you in one minute. It'll look really nice. What is it? Just bring that guitar from my bedroom. Bedroom guitar rest. Bedroom guitar rest. Give me the okay. It's in tune? It's in tune, I think. Yeah. Should be in tune. I'll play a chord. You tell me if it sounds in tune. I'll play. Play a minor chord. No. What what chord is that? E minor. Go to E major. So, E minor E major. Okay. Okay? Right. So go, Go on just, and then I'll say change. Thank you. That was fun. I'd love to come one day and sit in your studio when you're making a song. Come, come, come. I'll sit quietly in a corner. I'll sit quietly in a corner in a corner. Come, come, miss. Yes. I have I have a studio here too. In Bombay? Yeah. Big complex. When when are you making a song based? Today? Tonight? Really? Yeah. You You wanna go make a song now? What are you saying?
