Wow. That looks very dead. In the background, you had a good, you had a good day here. It's hot though, right? It's typical Yeah. SF weather. Uh-uh. Yesterday was super, super cold. I haven't been outside, so I didn't know it was hot today. You live here? No. New York now. Oh. I moved to New York recently, sadly. I like to hear more. Do you? Parents are in New York, so I wanted to get getting older. New York seems like a lot more fun. The city's more fun. Yeah. But I would SF is beautiful. Where are you based? Based out of India. Okay. Where? So I live between Bangalore, Mumbai, and Goa in India. Okay. Have you been recently? I go once a year. I don't remember. I I was there earlier this year. Yeah. But Like it? At least yeah. It's so like, it's just the energy is incredible, and the teams, you know, we got in I think it's Hyderabad in Bangalore. We got teams there, and it's just a like a group who is super excited. The energy you get out of the teams when you go visit them is it's pretty awesome. I like it a lot. What's happening in India, Dara, with I know your main competition is Ola, who's also a really good friend of mine. Yes. We live in the same city. Yes. Well, have we officially started? Yeah. Alright. Good. Okay. Ola used to be our main competition. Mhmm. And, you know, we were always going head to head with Ola in terms of the category position in the marketplace. They were the local competitor. I think we had the better global tech, etcetera, but they were always scrappy. I think he got, somewhat distracted by other interesting areas, for him. So I say now the the the tougher competition in India is rapido. Mhmm. You know, they're the upstart. Mhmm. They got into two wheelers and three wheelers really aggressively. Super simple model, just kind of the subscription zero commission model, very scrappy as well. And they have gained a good amount of category position. I think Ola is now kind of a distant third. Mhmm. They're trying to get into four wheelers now. So we when we talk about India, other than the talent that we have there and building there and really building on our talent base, but when we when we talk about the business in India, and it's the third largest country in terms of mobility trips, so India is really important to us. The competition that we talk about is really Rapido. What do you think Rapido is getting right that the others are not? You know, I'm not on the ground, but I think Rapido, built a really simple model, which is basically, you know, the subscription model. You pay a certain amount, and for the rest of the day, you operate on what's essentially zero commission. Right. And once you pay the subscription, then because Rapido is essentially taking a zero commission, then the the driver pay is higher than a player than a player who, like us, who's taking a commission on every trip. So I think that was a smart way for them to break into the marketplace. Rapido's not making money, so the real test of the business isn't how fast you can grow if you're spending, it's actually how fast you can grow while you're profitable, and I think Rapido is a long way away from that. But they've been innovative. They've been scrappy. They move fast. They're they're building their brand there in the local market, so we've got a lot of respect for them, and, you know, we intend to compete really hard with them. Nice. So, Dara, this podcast that we do is largely focused around young, wannabe entrepreneurs in India. Mhmm. And the spaces that you operate in, beat mobility, delivery, may I also say autonomous vehicles, electric vehicles, these are taking up significant mind share in the dialogue that's happening back home. Mhmm. So at the end of today, if I I can arrive at some takeaways that one could use in India to build around any of these sectors, it'll be incredible. But maybe we start with you, the individual, and you give us a few minutes on where you began and how you arrived to where you are today? Yeah. Absolutely. So I was, born in Iran. Mhmm. And during when I was born in Iran, the Shah of Iran was really trying to modernize Iran very quickly. And I was part I was very lucky to be a part of a family that was part of the industrialization of of Iran. There's a our family ran a group, Albor's group, and then within it, manufacturing companies like Tolidaru, which, were manufacturing. We licensed pharmaceuticals from the West, and then manufactured them in Iran, and then distributed them in Iran and the and the Middle East. It was a big business. We're a very well known family. My my father was in charge of building out all the factories. And our family was raised with assumption that we will then step into the family business and and and keep growing. And it it was a really exciting time. Can I digress and ask a question? Whenever I read about Iran's history Mhmm. When I talk to the young folk, the Shah's time seems to have been this great time. What happened? Why did it change? Why did the regime change? Well, I think it was a great time for, people who were lucky enough to participate in the modernization of Iran. The fact is Is it like crony capitalism? I don't I don't know enough, but I think that to some extent in hindsight, and in hindsight it's 2020, I think the Shah tried to modernize too quickly. Mhmm. I think that he was too focused on building up military power. So in terms of the growth of GDP in Iran, a significant amount went to establishing Iran as the power center of The Middle East or the military power center of The Middle East versus the industrial power center of The Middle East. And I think he didn't bring along the outskirts, the people who lived in smaller cities, etcetera. And part of his modernization left Islam behind. And Iran as a culture is much more ancient than Islam. Mhmm. But Islam is part of the society as well. And so his moving too fast, his focusing on military power versus his people, his focus on kind of the big cities versus everybody, you know, rhymes with maybe things that have happened here, created a movement and an opportunity for the Islamic regime to come in. So people tend to romanticize the past. Now, do I think that the time under the Shah was a better time? Absolutely. I think what's happened with the Islamic regime, you know, there's a regime that isn't, I think doing the Iranian people right, and cares about things other than the, the benefit of the people there. And I and I think that's it's disappointing, and it's been there for too long, in my opinion. But, you know, every time has its good and its bad, and, unfortunately, the Shah wasn't able to follow through on a movement that had a lot of promise. And I think the the biggest promise in my estimation was was the value of education. And women went to college, etcetera. The number of women graduates in Iran actually is higher than the than the number of men graduates. So there are a lot of seeds planted there that had a lot of promise. And hopefully, hopefully, Iran can get out of, I think now, its obsession with Islam and think more about its people, and building out for the good of the people in concert with Islam, but not subjugated to Islam. Does it get in the way in any way today, the fact that your origins are there while the countries where you live today and that might be in conflict? Not not a conflict in my life. Mhmm. You know, there's a sadness Mhmm. And leaving your home country. I mean, my country is now The United States, and we got to rebuild in The US, and I'm so thankful for it. But where I'd love to go back, I would. But to some extent, the culture of Iran matches the Western culture. It's a group of people who want to build. It's a group of people who value education, who are ambitious. So I don't find it a conflict with who I am now. But there's a part of me that I feel is incomplete and will be incomplete if I never am able to go back to Iran. I have Iranian friends who live in India now. Yes. And most of them mimic your emotion in thinking that here's a land that had so much opportunity Incredible. But just religion seems to have caused so much harm than good in that particular geography. And and it doesn't have to. There there are many things about religion that are beautiful, but, again, I think what's happened in Iran is, it's really unfair to the people there. Are you religious, Dara? I'm not religious. I'd say I'm spiritual. Right. But I'm not religious. I, you know, I I believe in the power of humanity. And I think religion, is plays to what makes us human and the relationships between us and the deep, deep good in all of us. And, I think it's beautiful. You know, religions, the stories, the beliefs are are beautiful. And so I describe myself more as spiritual, but for me, my belief is in the good of humanity. At the very core, do you think that is what religion is, stories? Great stories? I think, yeah. You know, if you if if you kinda go through the there's an intellectual exercise I I heard, which is if if all of our memory was wiped out Yeah. And you rebuilt religions on Earth, there's a high probability that the nature of those religions and the stories would be different. If you rebuilt science, the science will come out the same. And so I do think that there are deep truths, there are deep human truths to, to religion. And those deep truths are unchanging. But each religion are definitely different ways of getting to those similar deep truths. What is spirituality to you? A lot of people ask me if I'm spiritual, and I'm like, what is it? I'm trying to figure out what the word even means to begin with. I think it's a great question. For me, what spirituality means to me is a belief in the goodness of humanity, a belief in, you know, you and I Mhmm. Have so little in common in terms of where we came from and maybe our, stories, but so much in common. We've sat together in five minutes and there's a connection there. Mhmm. And I don't think that connection is because of a logical construct that I'm here to speak to you on a podcast that are, you know, like I'm not faking it. Mhmm. Right? There's a connection that we're establishing now, having this discussion. That to me is a spiritual connection. It's not a logical construct. You know, you're not being nice to me because you think you have to be and vice versa. Instantly you have that rapport. And sometimes, by the way, you don't with certain people. Mhmm. That comes from a spiritual side. And that spirit can be, captured for good Mhmm. And it can be captured for evil as well. So in a way, we're all connected somehow, like trees and roots? You know, literally, I don't know. But yes, I do think there's a deeper connection within humanity. And listen, there are some people who attribute that to perfectly logical causes, right? The love that you have. Do you have family? Do you have brothers and sisters? Yeah. Know, there are some people who will say that your, what do you have? Brother. Yeah. Your love for your brother is based on the genetic similarity of you two. So it's actually while you may ascertain that to a deep love that you have for family, it's actually purely logically based on your existence as a bunch of genes who wants to continue those genes, and your brother has a genetic makeup that's quite similar to you. So what you view as familial love is actually adaptation that is feeding you that familial love. There is a logical explanation to all of this. I kind of choose to acknowledge that, but I view that the outcome of that is spirituality. Now, it may be based on genetic logic between all of us, but I think that outcome is, beautiful, and I'd rather keep it at the spiritual level versus say, oh, it's all it's just us being gene machines that are trying to, continue our genes indefinitely. Would make a case for liking people who are genetically similar to us as well? Because we have similar genes to procreate? Yeah. Absolutely. I I feel a connection to Iran, a deep connection to Iran. Why? I came here when I was nine years old. We're now back at history. Right? Yeah. And I I have to say one thing. I was in your old office yesterday Yes. And Allen and Co is meeting somebody for something. And you know Bob Carey? Yes. I've met him. I don't know Bob very well, but I've met him. Yeah. So they were telling me you should ask Dara, and I said I'm meeting you the next day. Mhmm. And they were telling me you should ask Dara. When he used to be here, he used to say he doesn't believe in globalization. Is that because genes away from one geography become too far? Boy, that was Bob's takeaway from I don't even remember that. I don't know if I was trying to, like, upset him or something like that. I don't believe in globalization. I don't know what that means, or I don't know what I meant at the time. But I do think that, you know, again, you could that that connection I have with Iran, I believe, is a spiritual connection. I don't know where it comes from. Because I'm so American, right? I've lived, the vast majority of my life, as an American. I've been incredibly lucky to be here, but there's a part of me that feels empty if I don't go back. And, you know, that's probably a spiritual connection. Again, you could put a genetic underlying cost to it, but I like the story of that being spirituality more. I get that. Yeah. I think I feel that in India strongly. Yeah. So '9 year nine, you moved here? Yeah. So we had, the Iranian the revolution happened, the Islamic revolution happened. Little story, which is, we we were intending to stay at one point, but then I think the the house across the street from us was related to the Shasem house. So some revolutionary guards jumped, wanted to go attack that house, and they jumped over, went through our, garden. I think their guns went off, so shots went off, so bullets came through our house. And at that point, my mom said, we're getting out of here. Wow. So we went to the South Of France. We were a wealthy family. We had a place there. And really, the intent was to go to the South Of France until things calmed down. Mhmm. Well, things never calmed down. Okay. We happen to have an uncle who's still alive now. He's 101 years old. Uncle Nasrola, who lived in The US. He married Faith, an American woman, wonderful, wonderful, auntie. And so we came to The US to stay with them. And then we knew we could never go back. Mhmm. And we started a a life here. So I've been in The US ever since I was nine years old. Iranians are quite wealthy. Whenever I go to I realize this when I go to Beverly Hills, and everybody's Iranian. Why is that? Well, I think the Iranians who were wealthy got to go got to leave. And, you know, Iranians there were pretty entrepreneurial culture, and a lot of Iranians invested in real estate. You know, we came here in the late 1970s, 80s, and it was a good time to come to America and establish yourself and get into business in The US. And my family did the same. My family did the same. But it was really for the kids. I was only nine years old. I think children are able to adjust to change much more readily. You know, for us, like, America was this magic country where I went from, like, three channels in Iran to 35 channels, cable. I couldn't understand the language very well, but we adjusted really well, and and we always had our family around us. But it was much harder for my parents. You know, my my father, his whole life was business. And he took a shot at some entrepreneurial businesses, they didn't work out very well. And without work, he didn't have a cause in his life. He went back to Iran because his father was dying. So I didn't see him, I think, between the ages of 13 and 19 because they wouldn't let him out of the country for those six years. And my mom, who lived a life of absolute luxury, had to go back to work. She worked as a salesperson, at Nordstrom, Celine. And, you know, it it was a very, very difficult adjustment for them. But for the kids, we always had family. We got to go to private school, and we got to have the kind of education that then afforded us the opportunities that we've taken advantage of of since. So you started school here. Where in America? In Westchester County, New York, about, an hour of New York at a wonderful school called Hackley School. Mhmm. And then I went to, Brown University and studied engineering at Brown University. And then I was going to an engineering management program, and I met a commodity trader, a woman in New York City, who I completely fell in love with. And I had to find a job in New York City, and the only jobs available in New York City were investment banking jobs. And so that's how I got to Allen and Company that you just talked about. And I worked at Allen and Company for, I think it was like eight years or so. Mhmm. And one of my clients there was a gentleman named Barry Diller, who's this legendary figure in media and then very much within the internet. And he was a client of mine, and I remember, my intention was to stay at Allen and Company forever. It is a great family run business. Really look out for your clients. It's not the kind of investment bank that's looking for fees. They want to help you build a business. So I thought I was gonna be there forever. But then I saw Barry. I said, if if if I ever get a chance to work for that guy Mhmm. I'll take it in a second. Why was that? Why was Barry was Barry interesting or Expedia interested? This was before Expedia. It it was all Barry. He was, every time he came into a room, the whole room would light up. Mhmm. It just that the energy that he carried with him was extraordinary. And I'll tell you a little story of of when we met. And it's a lesson that I learned in in in business, was that he, he was bidding for, he was running a company called QVC, which was home shopping, bidding for Paramount, which was the, the company that he he used to run. So it's like his coming home, and I was the little crappy analyst who was running his his deal model. Mhmm. And at one point, you know, the the numbers started getting really high. He's like, I want to meet the person who built this deal model. And, you know, usually with these investment banks, you like have a managing director and a vice president and an associate. And he's like, no. I wanna meet the person. I want this person to take me through the model. And so he comes in, and I'm like so nervous. I'm about to like die. And he forced me to, like, take him through every single line of this model so he could understand what he was doing. And the lesson that I learned from him was that every time you know, the the higher up you get an organization, and it's something that I really think about now, the more procured, your version of what's happening in the real world becomes. You have a chief of staff who controls your, your schedule. And so all the information flow to you becomes controlled. And as the information flow comes up to you, it gets edited and edited and edited. And all the edges leave. Mhmm. And you essentially get access to the information that the organization wants you to have. And the biggest mistakes that I see with businesses is not usually errors of judgment, but you just didn't really know what was going on in the organization. And Barry went right to kind of the source. He didn't want the editing. He didn't want the smooth presentation, this or that. And so he wanted to get it to the source. You know, I did okay, because then he hired me as a banker, and I just found out with him. To everyone now? Like, what happens to CEOs because of the management teams and so on and so forth to normal people? Is everybody, by virtue of using large language models, today getting a version that if they did it manually, they would have they would have discovered that there are other versions possible. Definitely. Is it making us all stupid? I mean, listen. It it's it's it's not making all of us stupid. But if you are lazy enough to just depend on that version of reality Mhmm. Because it's a very easy version of reality available to you, then you could possibly be stupid. And so that's a a sometimes as in organizations, you know, the organization takes over the flow of information Mhmm. Up the the organization, etcetera. And one lesson that I learned from Barry is, like, the way you fight that is to create these random matches, etcetera, to fight the organization's, need to package everything for you. Because it's the things that you don't know that ultimately, you know, hit you on the side of the head that make you vulnerable. And so it's a it's a very long winded story, but, eventually, Barry lost that deal. He then started with in partnership with John Malone, who's another kind of legend in the entertainment industry, home shopping network, and started rolling up some other, assets. And at that point, he he did a big deal with USA Networks. He didn't have any staff to help him out. And at that point, he hired me to be his deal person, and I followed him. So then we kinda took the he he was really Barry was really interested in the intersection of entertainment with interactivity. And this is, like, during the AOL days, etcetera. And and we actually got lucky because we bought a company called Ticketmaster. Mhmm. I don't know if Ticketmaster operates in India, but, like, you know, they they would sell It doesn't, but I remember it. Yeah. And and in the olden days, the way that Ticketmaster would sell tickets was either you would go to, like, a Tower Records store and, like, wait in line for the Madonna concert, or you would call Ticketmaster, kind of call, call, call to to get these tickets. And they did a deal with America Online. And whoosh, the volumes went online. And so at that point, Dyer and I were like, okay, what else looks like tickets? It's a virtual good, Advanced ticketing, reserved seats. What else looks or rhymes with transactions happening either over the phone or, you know, across the desk? And because the transactions are virtual, you don't have shipping costs, etcetera. We don't wanna compete with Jeff Bezos. Let's it go after those companies that are offline because we know all the stuff is gonna move online. So that led us to, for example, travel. You know, in the olden days, you go to the travel agency or you would call a travel agent to book travel, like, that's gonna go online. Mhmm. So we started buying businesses that were either offline, that were moving online, or some of the early online travel companies like Expedia. We went into the personals business, match.com. In the olden days, you would call and be like, hi. I'm Dara, and I'm I'm five nine. I'm six foot two, and this and that. You know, like, you leave your profile online, and someone else would pick that profile. All this stuff went online. So it was a really wonderful adventure of finding businesses that we thought would take advantage of this movement of, of offline to online. Travel was a huge category that we invested in. I went from being Barry's deal person to being his chief financial officer. And then at one point, the travel business, it had this incredible growth, but it hit some turbulence. And at that point, Barry needed a CEO, and I was dumb enough to raise my hand. I said, hey, maybe I can run this thing? And that's when I took over what became, Expedia. And I ran Expedia for thirteen years. Barry was always his chairman. I was the CEO of the company. That was a great run. We had a great run together. How does travel change next, Tara? I think it's a industry which has stagnated a bit in terms of Yeah. How one books. At least my experience online of booking a ticket, a hotel hasn't changed that much in the last few years. Yeah. I I don't think that the travel industry has innovated that much. I I think you're exactly right. And it frustrates me. Mhmm. You know, which is like what the booking experience looks quite similar. I think one obvious answer is the Gentek experience, which is can you actually get AI agents or, LM agents to book the travel for you, to to go to the various sites and compare Mhmm. Compare, prices, etcetera, and and book for you. So I think that part of the travel booking experience can be easier having agents work for you. I think that the discovery part of the travel experience can get much much better. This is, I think, one area where LMs today shine. Because if you thought in the, again, probably ten years ago, I wanna go someplace over the summer, how you would figure out where to go, it would be you would maybe read a magazine or go online or talk to friends or you heard about something. The way to gather information or go to Google, which I think could be quite frustrating, you know, luxury vacation in Europe, like the the results you get are trash in my opinion. With LLMs now, actually, their ability to gather the information and bring you unexpected results, etcetera. I think travel discovery is gonna get much much better and is much better today. Travel booking, I think agents can help you as well. And then I think one area that I think Uber is really good at that I think the experience can improve significantly is your in market experience. You know, why is it that when you land and you take the Uber to the to your hotel, you even need to check-in. Right? We should we have your phone, we know where you are, come into the room, you know, you're why can't it be you're in room, you know, 3031 E, and just go up there. You already checked in and go in. You know, why do I need to sit there and, you know, have the perfectly nice person ask me if I had a nice flight? Mhmm. And, you know, here's my room, etcetera. I think the in market experience is something that hasn't been innovated on at all and is something that could improve as well. Yeah. I'm able to today discover say I'm coming to San Francisco. Yes. And I wanna figure out which hotel suits my needs. I can enter my taste each time, and the agent will recommend something. But is there one place where I don't have to think and the agent can do everything? I don't think there's one soul for it today. No. And and there definitely isn't one place today. I I do think the cost of a bad decision in travel is very high. Yeah. So I don't think you're gonna get to a place, and I'm certainly not gonna get to a place where I tell an agent to find me a hotel in San Francisco and just book it. And then, you know, on the day when I arrive there, I'm like, where am I going? Yeah. But I think agents can do a great job of of reducing, you know, that list that on Expedia, you look at the 50 hotels and then you're filtering for, you know, maybe where you're looking or the class of hotels, it it can collate. It can give you the three hotels that you're most likely to like based on your historical experiences. So I think there's this in between space, and I think agents can do a great job in that in between space. But I think that final decision, at least for me, is gonna be up to you. But that collation, that kind of bringing everything together, that's a that could be a very, very high utility. If you had an idea to build something around travel Mhmm. Sitting on the board of Expedia and running Uber at the same time, where do you build what? I think I would build I would not go after the I. Mhmm. Would not go after the inspiration side. Because I think the inspiration side, thank you very much, is is gonna be served really, really well by an OpenAI or a Google. They're collecting all the information. They're gonna have lots of context about who you and I are. And and the way people get inspired, it's so, disperse Right. That it's gonna be very difficult for you to build one service that, let's say, services 70% of your inspiration. And and I really do think that Google, OpenAI, other LMs are are going to just get better and better here. But I think the agentic search, booking experience, and then in market experience to make it a very smooth hand off from one experience to the other. I think that's something that I would focus on, you know, with my Expedia and Uber hat on at the same time. Something interesting to build though. Yeah. Definitely. A lot of opportunity here. It's not solved for at all. Someone's gonna get it right. And I I do think one challenge in terms of how the industry is constructed right now is that the OTAs, the booking.coms, the Expedias of the world, they have they are very self interested in making sure that you book within their, their supply base. Mhmm. And at the same time, outside of that supply base, you know, they're organizing a ton of content, prices, etcetera, features, and information. So there's utility in that. Mhmm. The ultimate solution is gonna be an agent that can sit above it all and can kind of scour the Internet and scour all the booking services and then surface the results, which may be a mix and match of all of them for you based on your tastes. So I don't know actually, and I hope it's Expedia because I'm on the board and I love the company. I hope it'll be Expedia who puts it all together. Mhmm. But there could be kind of an umbrella agent who is truly representing your interest versus Expedia's interest. Now Expedia does a great job, they will maybe expand or they will, you know, over a period of time, amalgamate all the content on the on the web. So all the travel content on the web, booking content on the web. So that super agent doesn't add much value. When you have an umbrella agent, soon you'll have another and then another. Yeah. So will it come down to who is able to extrapolate your taste? And can someone's taste be deciphered from past data, you think? I think it's gonna be a combination of past data. I think that you want an you want an agent that will do some exploration for you. You know, so for example, when, we are showing you the restaurant that you're likely to want to pick on Uber Eats, if all we show you is the is the ones that you're most likely to or based on what you've done in the past, then we're missing that surprise. We're missing that explore. So you want an agent that's a combination of explore and exploit. Mhmm. I think that's gonna be so I don't think it's just gonna be on your past taste, but it'll be putting your past taste with other people who look like you and then surprising you with some new choices as well. I think that's ultimately gonna be the winner. Ultimately, so much will come down to taste, right, in this world. Well, listen. Taste, convenience, price. Mhmm. Right? I mean, you and I may be lucky enough where taste is Mhmm. The overriding factor, but there may be context for you. Right? If if you're, coming to San Francisco and it's midweek, you may want a cheap, decent place close to the Uber offices. Right? And that's a different context than if you are going to go to Napa for the weekend, where you want an experience either for yourself, for yourself and friends or loved ones. So I do think that experience either for yourself, for yourself and friends, or loved ones. So I do think that it's not as simple in terms of taste. It's based on the context of what the what what you're, what you're solving for, you know, your objective function. And your objective function is gonna change, based on the context of what the goal of that trip is. So, Dara, I was trying to define what Uber is today. You mentioned barry and match.com. Yeah. Are you match.com in a different way? I mean, to some extent, we're bringing, obviously, riders and drivers together, and we're trying to meet match eaters with, our restaurant partners with a courier. So there is some of that. But listen, I think one way that I think about it from a consumer's standpoint, you know, Uber is different thing to Uber to to different people. For the consumer, I really want Uber to be like that operating system for your everyday life. You know, we make your everyday life a little bit easier. We give you a little bit of time and convenience back in terms of where you want to go, what you want to eat, more and more what you want. Right? If you want that iPhone same day, we'll do that for you. For our driver and courier partners, we are a source of of of work, and a source of earnings based on your own needs. Now, you know, and and and you're you're gonna balance your needs based on the commercial objectives as well. If your need is that I don't wanna give rides at 2AM in the morning, you may not make much money. So there's a combination of, you know, the marketplace combines what when you wanna work with with the realities of the commercial objectives. Hey, 9PM Friday night, you may not wanna work, but it's a great time to work Mhmm. In San Francisco. And then for restaurant partners, you know, we're a trusted partner in bringing a source of demand in terms of, delivery and now retail and groceries, that's only gonna grow. You know, what we see is the convenience that we offer in terms of, delivery of starting food. Now, but everything, that convenience is absolutely dynamite. It's peep it's something that people want all over the world, and as they experience it, more and more people want it. This is funny, but I was I got in last evening. Hope you took an Uber. No. I have a driver here. But, I wanted a adapter. Mhmm. I'm using a lap I'm using a couple of laptops which have India plug points Sure. And I needed a travel adapter. And at 08:30PM, I was trying to, like, ID it. My hotel didn't have one. Sure. Target Best Buy shuts down at 8PM. Walgreens had one store which was open up until 10PM. I tried to download Instacart on my phone, which said I couldn't do it unless I have a US number. Oh, yeah. Sure. Yeah. So Did you try Eats? Does Uber Eats have travel in Athens? Yeah? Yes. And can I have a international number? That's one of the issues with actually the name. Right? Right. When we got out of, when we wanted to expand from food to grocery and other items, we actually tested, is Uber Eats the right name with consumers? And we found that consumers thought that it would carry, you know, like it's and you've seen a lot of our branding. Well, you may not have seen it because in India, we don't have Uber Eats, unfortunately, first of my heart. In 2020. Right? Yes. Yes. We partnered, there. We we didn't think we could win in India, and we wanted to really focus on mobility. Mhmm. But Eats now has groceries, got retail, and I'll bet you you could have found that travel adapter. So lesson learned for you next time. And by the way, Eats is now available on the on the rides app too. Nice. You sold Uber Eats to Zomato for for $405,100,000,000. I think you had a 10% equity in Zomato in turn. They got a great deal. Yeah. And then you got out of Zomato altogether as well Yes. Which is called Eternal Now. I didn't know that. Changed the name of the company. Why is that? Why did you get out? What did you understand or learn about the Indian market? We we got out not because of some deep thought as it relates to Indian market, but my belief that we're not a holding company. We're not an investment company. I I am that is not my core competency Mhmm. To take Uber investors' capital and invest it really well. Mhmm. My competency is to build a big operating business that over a period of time, you know, grows top line, brings in lots of consumers all over the world, and ultimately, you you know, throws off a lot of profitability and and and we can build a a share price. My skill in terms of investment, is not going to be a significant factor in the value creation here. So I believe in kind of sticking, you know, could I have had a wonderful intellectual time on trying to determine if if I should sell Zomato now or later, ten years from now? Mhmm. Sure. But that that's not my core competence. So I want I like to stick to my core competence. Would you buy Zomato today? I don't know. I haven't looked at it, actually. Right. Yeah. So I mean I mean, they they've done a great job. The food the food delivery business and now the instant grocery business in, like, Blinkit, I've heard is actually larger than the core Zmata business was. Right? Yeah. So it's faster. Yeah. Yeah. Very much so. So Uber is about 57% mobility, 30% delivery. For today, I'm gonna ignore freight because I think it's growing at the lowest base as well. I get it. Yes. And I'm gonna be a 20 year old boy or girl in India trying to build a business in either mobility, delivery, quick commerce, and maybe we get advice from Dara as to what to build and what the opportunities are. Are. Oh, that's a well, first, I'd say don't try to build anything against Uber because we'll kick your ass. And you can buy us later. How how big are network effects? Because you're already in so many markets and so big, I'm guessing it's very hard to service a customer who wants to hire a Uber at 3AM and three 3AM and 6PM. Yeah. Unless you have network yeah. The the network effects are very, very significant. Now and and so I do think that to invest in and build the required liquidity on both sides of the market is gonna be very, very difficult. Now the network effects to some extent can be local. Right? So the the liquidity that we have in Bangalore may be different from the liquidity that we have in Hyderabad. So I do think that there's an opportunity, and maybe Rapido took advantage of that opportunity of building out services in smaller cities and then building out liquidity in a way that's not quite as expensive because you're not trying to take on all of India, but go city by city by city and then get into larger cities. They started with, I think, two wheelers and three wheelers. They're trying to get into autos, etcetera. So I think if you find a niche where you believe that you can build liquid supply and demand on a local basis, and then you can rinse and repeat that over and over again. It's essentially what Travis did when with Uber when he founded it. That is something that could work. And if you get large enough, maybe then, and it might be a different segment. Let's say, intercity, for example, or some other segment that isn't particularly well served by the Ubers of the world, or the Zamatas of the world, or some of the other players. Then maybe that you can build something that could either compete with them or could be bought by them. That's an interesting insight. I've watched a bunch of your interviews and I'm sorry. No. No. They're actually really nice. Thank you. Travis, they say that in in society today, as a leader, you're either awe inspiring, dogmatic, or you're somebody who builds consensus is more relatable per se. Mhmm. Have you had to project a more relatable image? Because you have to overcompensate for what Travis was projecting. I one one thing that I really believe in is, I don't think it works if you're trying to be someone other than who you are. You know, people come to me and they they ask me for leadership advice, and the first piece of advice that I give them is be true to yourself. Because the minute you're not true to yourself, people will smell that a mile off if you're not authentic. You know, this is a word that people mean authentic, etcetera. What does it mean? It's just like, be true to who you are. I am, the youngest brother of a really big family. Mhmm. We have, like, thousands of cousins around. Mhmm. And in Iran, community and family is so important. Nobody's the star. And if you're the star, you're gonna be put in your place. You know, I'm a fancy fancy CEO here, but when I go to my family Mhmm. I'm just one of the younger cousins, and I'm no big deal. And I love it. It's such a relief to be that person who I just that's my comfort zone. So I tend to be more collaborative. You know, I I when I played sports, I I would play defense. Mhmm. I always played team sports. I didn't wanna win as an individual. I love the feeling of winning as a team. I I, you know, I don't wanna be there celebrating by myself. I wanna celebrate with my team. Right. So that is who I am, and maybe that's one of the reasons why I I wound up here, here. And actually, my challenge as a leader Mhmm. Is to get out of that collaborative mode sometimes and to really drive. And for example, I'll give you a little story, and it's a funny story, but it just taught me a lot. We were, during COVID Mhmm. In The US, COVID was devastating to our business. Mobility was 90% of our business and by far, you know, the profitable piece of the business. And overnight, we lost 85% of our volume. Couldn't be worse. And and we went from we were already losing 2,000,000,000 a year. We went from losing 2,000,000,000 a year a year to like losing 4,000,000,000 a year. It was a disaster. And it became very clear that we had to, undergo layoffs. Mhmm. Not a fun time. I never thought I'd come to Uber to to lay off thousands of people. And me being me, I was, talking to my team. What do you think we should do? What are the levels? Where should we I didn't want to do a peanut butter kind of a layoff, etcetera. I wanted to be focused. And I would do meeting after meeting after meeting with my team because I wanted them all included and I want to hear what they had to say. And Nelson Che, my CFO at the time, he we were talking and he's like, Dara, you know, we have a lot of respect for you and you're a really good person. Mhmm. And we've talked about this a lot. Why don't you just tell us what you wanna do? Because you tell us what you wanna do, we're right behind you. And I was like, my god. Like, sometimes Mhmm. Collaboration, etcetera, talking about things doesn't help. And as a leader, you have to go from collaborate, you know, from peace time collaboration mode to wartime, like, I am the leader, I'm the general, I'm gonna make a decision mode. And and there, like, I didn't sleep that much that night, but the next day I got everyone together. I'm like, here's what we're gonna do. We cut deep in operations. We cut less deep on on tech. We it was very, very difficult. But, like, we went, and everyone was behind me. And while it was a really, really difficult time, to some extent, that brought the team together. It allowed Uber Eats to grow to incredible levels, and I think it made us a better company. I would never ever wanna go through that again, but made us a better company. So for me, my, my general comfort zone is collaboration, working with the team, listening to the team. But then what I've learned is there are certain circumstances where you have to switch your modes. Mhmm. And so I'll switch from collaboration to decision, here's what we're gonna do. And because my team sees me listening, collaborating most of the time, I think they give me credit when I say, alright, we're gonna go this way. So it it's who I am. Yeah. I've been noticing I might be wrong in this. In a David versus Goliath world, David seems to have started winning quite often, which kinda doesn't make sense because we are largely a trust deficit planet. But a lot of people I know, I think it's weirdly correlated to affluence, want to pick the smaller guy Sure. The smaller brand, individuals over corporations. Mhmm. In such a world, I get that relatable makes a lot more sense than awe inspiring dogmatic. But how does a company like Uber, which is, 40 plus billion in revenue and millions of rides and employees and all of that, how do you evolve to project the David image while you already have all of this? I do think that there is first of all, I feel like David when, you know, we're competing in, technology world of trillion dollar plus companies. Right? So while we may be a larger company, I don't feel like we're a big company at Uber. We've done well as a company, but, like, I think there's so much more that we can do. So I see our shortcomings much more than our accomplishments. And I think that there is, it's part of the culture of the company, which is not to overestimate ourselves and and to act like a like a disruptor, etcetera. Do you do that consciously? Project vulnerability? Goliath doesn't reflect. I think it's kind of who I am. It goes back to my family. There's there's a my father was, like, a really modest person. Mhmm. And he would the minute I kinda thought I was hot shit, I don't know if I'm allowed to say that, you know, he he put me, you know, he he would just throw me in my in my place. So Mhmm. I think part of it is who I am. I think part of it is where Uber came from. Remember, like, we we were the upstarts. Like, this company wouldn't exist Mhmm. If we weren't challenging the the the status quo. But how do you continue to look like the upstart tomorrow if the world picks David? I hope so. Now now I would tell you that internally, I do we are upstarts, and and I wanna have that upstart mentality here. We do have to recognize the power that we have. And I do think that's a mistake that Uber made early on, which is we had to fight for our lives. But then at some point, you know, we did get large. We had incredible impact in the cities in which we operated with in. And and that does come with with that does come with responsibility. And so I do think there's there's this weird kind of dualism about our identity Mhmm. Which is internally we want to feel like upstarts all the time. Like every single day we're fighting for our lives. We we we hire from a lot of big tech companies, and we say, like, come here. You're gonna work your ass off. You'll probably make a little bit less money, but you're gonna, like, the work that you do can truly an individual engineer at Uber can have huge effect across the company. And that that is really cool. And at the same time, the effect that you have on the company also has an effect on society too, because we are big. And so there's this dualism that you have to keep within Uber, which is within these walls, we're gonna act like a start up. But outside of the walls and discussions we have with regulators and discussions that we have with our drivers, our couriers, our restaurants. Right now, we're a big company, and that does come with responsibility. And it means that just because you can do something doesn't mean you should. This is some advice I want personally. At some point, Uber had different teams attacking different cities Yes. For market share. And these teams almost competed with each other, and net net, it seemed to work well for Uber. Mhmm. I tend to do this very organically with people I have. I don't know if it's good in the long run or bad, but I make them compete with each other. Sure. What have you learned? Does it work? It works as a growth tactic, but it doesn't scale. So to some extent, what you wanna do is you wanna have these humans and teams compete against each other to hack your way into the best solution possible. Mhmm. Then after they get to that best solution possible, you then have to come in and automate that solution, you know, through algos, through engineering, etcetera. And then what was the frontier becomes a part of the core, and then you move to the next frontier. So that's kind of the design spec that we have. You know, the the team is actually very, very entrepreneurial. You know, like, we Uber teens to some extent was an amalgamation of a bunch of technologies that we built. And our CPO, Sachin, he kinda had he's like he was obsessed with that idea. He said, well, we have a bunch of safety functionality here. We can put together teams with our safest drivers. We have tracking functionality here. I'm gonna put this whole thing together and hack together what you call this teen solution. And you hack it, you move quickly, you see if there's product market fit, and then once you see the signal that there's product market fit, you do have to systematize it. Because if you don't systematize it, you can't scale. So you have to have both muscles within the organization. But it's a good way to discover something faster. Totally. You you don't wanna like it. But that the the signal we don't do this anymore, but at at Expedia in the olden days, you know, we, like, put a button Mhmm. On the website just to see if there's demand for that button, and someone, you know, would click it. And be like, oh, I'm sorry. It's not working right now. And we're just doing it to collect signal. You know, that that's the biggest hack possible. Right? Mhmm. So so and then once you see that product market fit, you gotta you gotta build behind it. And some companies make the mistake of not building behind it, and you can get away with it for a while, but at some point, the system falls apart. When you speak about DoorDash or when you when you spoke about, Zomato right now, you complimented them, praised them. I heard you on, interviews speaking about how DoorDash went after the suburbs and you guys missed out. You praising competition, is that a way to appear more David in a David versus Goliath world again? It it it's not it's not a it's not an act. Right. I think DoorDash is a really great company. I don't like them. Yeah. But they make us better. And they're a worthy competitor, global competitor. They're beating us right now in The US, but not for long. Mhmm. And we're beating them outside The US. And the two companies going against each other makes both companies better and actually builds a better service for consumers and couriers and restaurants all over the world. I I think, you know, the the humility that we talked about before, I think that actually creates a strength because you're curious. You're not overconfident. You don't think like you're the best in the world. You're curious about what others are doing. And for me, it motivates me and drives me to be better. You know, if I say DoorDash is a is a good competitor, they are a good competitor, that's motivation for me and my team to be better. You said outside US, you're beating them, and they're beating you here. Does India as a long, though, in The US. Does India as a market matter, Dara? You once observed when you were there that Indians are very demanding, and they don't wanna pay for anything. That that that comment cost me. It, it it matters hugely for us. Yeah. Right? It's India is now our third largest market in terms of mobility trips. Mhmm. We've got, I think, over 1,400,000 now drivers, auto, you know, two wheelers, three wheelers, and and four wheelers in India. The growth there is spectacular. I think India is already one of the great countries in the world, but if you look at it as a share of GDP, it's only going to increase. The leadership there is amazing. And and so much of our talent pool, not just in India, but all over the world comes from Indian descent as well. So India is, you know, it is a absolute must win for Uber, not just tomorrow, but ten years from now. I'm going to go back to being a 20 year old who's starting a business in this industry. You know, I say don't start one in this industry. Go go try something else. How do I recognize the opportunity versus TAM? Like, the total addressable market. Like, if I want to start quick commerce in India, and the cost of delivery is, say, 20 rupees or 30 rupees or 50 rupees, if the total addressable market that can afford a product like that in India be 20,000,000 people or 50,000,000 people, where is the number right? A lot of the spend a lot of consumption in India is still going towards groceries as much as 60%. So how do I justify to myself that my business idea is sound, that I'm gonna charge 50 rupees a delivery? How many people do I model for? Where does that fit come across geographies? I say you're way overthinking it. You know, businesses never businesses that succeed are always adapting and adjusting and adjusting. So what I tell you is figure out if there's product market fit in that narrow segment, call it the 50. And by the way, if it's narrow, that's great. Because then the big players are probably not gonna come after it. It's a segment where you can add value and a segment where you can own. And then if you establish product market fit and you build a business there, then you can go to the next area to the next area to the to the next area. But if my market size is only 20,000,000 people who can afford it, still build it? Build it as long as there's product market fit in terms of unit economics that makes sense. Mhmm. And once you get to those 20,000,000 people, you're gonna find an adjacency to get into. And then you'll find another adjacency, and you'll find another. But then I'm competing with people like you who already are sitting on the network network effects and Yeah. The the the big TAMs are gonna be taking. So actually, specifically, you should go after the small TAMs. Right. And the small opportunities where you can create a network effect without enormous investments, either in technology or development or or monies. You you actually specifically should go after the small TAMs and then work your way into the adjacencies over a period of time. I wasn't around, but at the time, you know, the when Uber East was conceived of, I think it was Jason Terogi and Travis, they were they were, like, driving around a bunch of cars with burritos in the trunk of that car. It was it was like a manifestation of mobility. Mhmm. A very close manifestation. And you look at where delivery has gone and how large it's become. You know, I don't think they would have ever predicted that. So you just get one step to the next step to the next step. I don't believe in overthinking TAM. I think TAMs are like you build those for IR and you build those to raise money. You may you may wanna create this wonderful dramatic TAM to go raise, you know, a couple of million bucks, but that's not what should be processing to your mind. It should be, can I build a service that has eventually strong unit economics that then I can build on top of? Quick commerce seems to have sidestepped The US for a long time. I think you went to big box retail, and then you went to another thing altogether. Yeah. Not necessarily competing on, I will deliver in six minutes, I will deliver in seven, and I will deliver in eight. Mhmm. Why is that? Because the cost of labor in The US is too high. So I my that that's my take, which is, with quick commerce, you can't automate that much because the cost of the automation doesn't bear out in a small box. Mhmm. So you have to use human labor. Mhmm. The and so in markets where the cost of human labor is not there and the concentration of of customers isn't there Mhmm. You get a fail, which is, for example, let's say, in The US. Right. You know, I think that GoPuff is making a good run at it. Mhmm. But you look at the development of that market versus, Blinkit or some of the other developing markets, it is absolutely working much, much better in lower cost labor markets than it is in high cost labor markets. Is there a arbitrage there because your drivers are not essentially employees? Is there a labor cost arbitrage? Because they're gig workers, they run their own cars, they don't need to be paid benefits, insurance. Yeah. There's there's a trade off there. Right? Which is we can't tell our drivers when and when to work. Right? So imagine if Starbucks is hiring a barista, they don't go to the barista, hey, show up whenever you want to, and, you know, we'll pay you how much a Starbucks barista makes per hour. So you could call it a labor arbitrage. I I call it a trade off, which is the driver and the courier can decide when and where they wanna work. That creates cost for us. We then have to build liquidity of of supply and demand. And sometimes we will use incentives and or algorithms, for example, surge our circumstances when, when demand exceeds supply. And in those cases, we have to actually raise prices for that demand in order to attract enough drivers to get out into the market to pick out to pick up everyone, you know, arriving at 7PM on a Thursday night at the airport or, you know, when when, the Warriors, game is is done. Right. So it it it's it's I wouldn't it's not an arbitrage mechanism. It is a trade off that also is an enormous benefit to, certain people who don't wanna work on a schedule, who wanna work less than forty hours a week. You know, 70% of our drivers and couriers are working less than twenty hours a week. So it is a unique product market fit that we found. It works for drivers and couriers. It works for us. We have to build very complex systems in order to make it work. And I think overall, when you look at society, it's good for society. Right? It's a service both for the drivers and for customers that works. And and I think more and more societies are are appreciating that. You've spoken about autonomous vehicles a bunch of times. Yes. And, I don't know if it'll happen sooner or later than you predict. But Everyone's been wrong so far. So who knows? Well, I mean, the predictions generally of autonomous and when they're when it's gonna be ready for market. Mhmm. You know, this is a this is a problem that, Waymo has been working on probably for fifteen, twenty years. Yeah. And it's proven out to be a much more difficult prompt solve than anyone expected. But finally, it's working now. I mean, the the Waymo product is spectacular, and there are others building out the products as well. I was at a junction last evening, and there was a fire truck behind the Weymouth. Interesting. And I I didn't I couldn't What are the sirens on? The sirens were on. And the Weymouth actually did this interesting maneuver where it went right, stopped there, waited for the fire truck to go. It was incredible. Yeah. It's perfect. Yeah. What do you think wins? Vemos tech or Tesla's? Cameras, lidar, radar? I personally believe that autonomous vehicles have to have superhuman levels of safety. I don't think it's good enough for them to be better than humans. They have to be multiple times better than humans, and Waymo's certainly proven that that's possible. So why not take that shot? Mhmm. I think in the near term, it's going to be very difficult, and Elon would tell me I'm wrong and never bet against him. But it's my instinct that in the near term, it's gonna be very difficult to build a camera only product that has superhuman levels of safety. And again, now at some point, will it be possible? Quite possibly, yes. But if you can have, instrumentation that includes cameras and lidar and the cost of lidar you know, solid state lidar now is $405,100 bucks. Why not Mhmm. Include lidar as well in order to achieve superhuman safety? So possible? Yeah. It will be possible. I don't know when. But is the possible the better product? I'm not sure. I would I all of our partners, that we're working with now are using a combination of, camera, radar, and lidar. And, you know, I personally think that's that's the right solution, but but it could be proven wrong. What happens to Uber's earners when if autonomous becomes safer and cheaper? Mhmm. One could argue that putting a human behind a wheel is a disservice because you're putting somebody at risk. At that point, what happens to all the earners who are working with Uber? I think it's not just earners. It's it's then why should humans drive? Yeah. Right? Society would be, I think there are about a million auto related fatalities in the world, so why not save those lives? Mhmm. I I think that that is it's an inevitability for that to happen. Mhmm. So it's not just drivers, but also all drivers, whether professional or not, wouldn't drive anymore. And and I think that would be a good outcome for society. I do think we have time How much time? Between I think it's a it's a good twenty years. You know, because right now, the drivers, the autonomous drivers are safer, but much more expensive, even in developed markets that have high labor costs. So for autonomous to come into India is going to take a long time in terms of cost of hardware coming down. So so twenty years I'm describing as an end state. You know, within ten years, you're gonna see a significant number of autonomous vehicles, especially in developed markets. And I think that's a very good thing in terms of safety. And what we're trying to do is make sure we communicate with our drivers appropriately, and it's very, very small at this point. It's a teeny teeny part of rides in in any markets. And we're actively looking to create other work opportunities for those drivers as well. So for example, I'm actually gonna go to a meeting later today of, a new group that we built, Uber AI Solutions, that is using our gig workers and then other specialist workers as well for, you know, AI labeling, translation, all kinds of, needs and products that actually serve these AI models, some of which may be autonomous or not, that ultimately are going to be doing a bunch more of the manual work, not just driving, but the manual work that many workers do today. I was having this debate with a friend of mine back in India, and they were, like, autonomous for India with the cows and dogs and carts and all of that. But when you think about it, if a computer has a reaction time which is faster than a human, an autonomous vehicle should do better with more arbitrary things like this at play. Totally. I I I think it it's just a question of training. Mhmm. And if, if autonomous vehicles can figure out New York City traffic, you know, India traffic is harder. Mhmm. But it's only an issue of training on additional datasets and improving the capabilities there. Yeah. And I don't wanna be unfair with this question of what happens in twenty years to earners if Yeah. Even if it takes twenty years because I could extrapolate the same thing for so many industries where AI will disrupt their jobs in twenty years. Yeah. It's a societal issue. Yeah. But what happens to society? What has happened to society repeatedly and repeatedly is that the workforce has adjusted over and over again. Right? Every single time when, more manufacturing was automated, there's always this drama of, oh my god, what happens to the people? And people figure it out. And people usually then go to higher, value types of labor and, you know, unemployment rate, we our world has more automation today than it ever has been, and unemployment rates are at historical lows in most, developed countries. I think the question is whether or not this is a unique time and circumstance where the change is going to happen faster than it ever has before. And based on the rate of technological change there, there's reason to believe that, yeah, maybe this time may happen faster than societies historically have been able to adjust to change. I don't know that yet. Mhmm. I don't think it's a problem for Uber. It's a problem for well, it is a it is a potential issue for Uber, and it could be a real problem. Mhmm. But it's a big societal problem that we all have to have to take on. But there's also opportunity there. You know, how can we educate our workforce and bring to them opportunities that ultimately allow them to live the kinds of life that they that they want to? Our, you know, kind of building Uber AI solutions is one small step in that direction, but believe me, we don't have all the answers. Do you suspect, Dara, that you might lose access to data like you have now? If tomorrow, say, Elon's saying that Tesla will not need Uber or even Waymo, I'm guessing a lot of the data is controlled by the hardware and less by who booked the Waymo. Well, I I think that we actually now have, we're collecting data using Lucid cars in a bunch of Yeah. Cities as well. So I think for Uber, data is not gonna be a problem. And we will have data, capture capabilities. We'll work with our partners to capture, data as well, and then provide them to our partners all over the world. And based on the growth that we see, our access to data is only gonna increase. Right. Travis is doing ghost kitchens. Yes. I watched an interview of his where he was speaking about how this could change how we eat. Mhmm. Any view on that? Do you think that's gonna happen? I I think it's inevitable. I think it'll take time. You know, change in the real world really takes time, but I've been super impressed with what Travis has done with Ghost Kitchens, and now he's working on robotics as well Mhmm. To automate more of the of the cooking process Mhmm. And bringing, you know, healthy, natural food to more people with less labor. Like, that's really, really cool. And he's a he's a terrific partner of ours. Like, we work with cloud kitchens all over the world. They're a big partner, and, you know, Travis is a, is an entrepreneur that you should not underestimate. Any view on what could happen to restaurants, Dara? Like, I know a bunch of them, large chains back home, who constantly complain about the 15 to 30% they end up paying, delivery operators, and they talk about how it's unsustainable. Add to that, you have the data and you start dark kitchens or what Travis is doing. What happens to an old school restaurant business? Well, I think an old school restaurant business that can't adjust is gonna suffer. They're gonna lose share. Mhmm. And so I think it's it's a job of the old school restaurant business to become a new school restaurant business. How do you do that? Well, I I think if if you break down what restaurants do is there's a component which is food. Mhmm. Right? Giving you great food that you enjoy. Mhmm. And there's another component which is hospitality. Right. Which is come to this restaurant and there's an environment that you might enjoy, etcetera. And there's the there's the mood, there's the romance of a of a restaurant as well. I think that what you will there there are certain restaurants where the hospitality part of the offerings, is not quite as is is not as significant. Right? It's, McDonald's is more about the food Mhmm. Than it is about going sitting in McDonald's and enjoying, you know, the seating there. It is about the food and the brand. And affordable food available quickly to so many people. Right? And so I do think that those depending on the kind of food that you're providing, if it's about the food, then you will have to make this transition to either drive through or delivery because you're not adding much value in terms of hospitality. Mhmm. And in those kinds of circumstances, what Cloud Kitchens offers you, which is a more industrialized way of still providing really healthy food to someone, and the hospitality there is, well, I wanna eat at home. I love my home. That is essentially where that system is gonna go. And yes, will it take share from the classic, from the classic restaurant business? It will. But it's also actually, extending the share of restaurant eating or restaurant food as a percentage of overall food consumption. If you look at restaurant sales, restaurant sales are growing faster than grocery sales because these restaurants are providing a better product more affordably, more conveniently. And then I do think that there will be certain restaurants where you know, that hospitality, the the third place that Starbucks was so good at, I think Brian Nichols is trying to bring in, the feel, that part of it, is still, I think, gonna sing, you know, the romance of going to a restaurant. And so I think that those two, the utility and the romance, are going to be separable, and you as a restaurateur have to understand where you wanna be because I think the middle is gonna be a difficult place to to live. But the restaurant industry is adjusting Mhmm. Just like every single industry has to adjust. You've gotta change in order to keep up with the times. So, Dara, you talk about ads on Uber. Yes. And I have found this even with myself that when I'm searching for something today, I don't use Google anymore. I end up using perplexity or OpenAI or someone like that. Sure. If I want to build a brand tomorrow and I want to market and nobody's landing on Google Ads, what happens to the world of ads? How does a brand get built? How do I get the word out that I've started this new t shirt company? Well, I think that those surfaces for a brand to truly get built are there in terms of Instagram and TikTok and and Facebook. Right? So the the Google ad world, the perplexity ad world, etcetera, are built for, for searches based on intent. And and so I think that that medium is about growing brands, not establishing or inventing brands. But I actually think that the surface area for brand new brands to, to to grow and thrive, It's actually greater than that than it ever has been. I'll tell you a little story of of my niece. Mhmm. Liliana. She's she's incredible. She she is studied humanities, loves fashion, loves golf, built, a wanted to build a new golf brand, which is like fun, great, you know, fashionable clothes for women. She went on, she used Midjourney, taught herself how to use Midjourney, designed all of the designs on Midjourney, then went out and sourced, her clothing with, I think it's, some Chinese players and Indian players and I think a couple of other places, got the clothing, and now she is building this Lillyhammer brand, and using TikTok and using Instagram, as her distribution mechanisms, and also going to, like, these traditional golf clubs, etcetera, she could not have done that ten years ago. Mhmm. So I actually think this is a magical time with the tools that you have, at your arsenal, and the manufacturing prowess all around the world at your disposal, it's a great time to build brands. And I think the surfaces are there as long as you have a story, you've got a personality, and you have a something distinctive to add. You're saying social media is still the go to place? Oh, yeah. Now, you know, would Liliana have the the you know, would she do well on Google? No. But that that's not the surface. You know, that's a surface, let's say, for Lululemon, not not her. With the current president's immigration policies Mhmm. Do you think labor cost for your earners will go up significantly? The cost of labor will not go up directly. Mhmm. Because I think the vast majority of drivers, couriers, etcetera, are illegal in terms of their immigration, status. But to some extent, we compete with the labor market in terms of the rates that, our drivers wanna make per hour. So So I think in an indirect way, it could have an effect on us, but I don't think it it'll have a direct effect on us. Right. So, Dara, I have a fund back home in India, and I spent You have a fund? I have a fund. Yeah. Like a private equity fund. Sure. And I'll How's it doing? It's been decent, I think. I spent a lot of the last couple of years buying into the transition into electric mobility. Interesting. So we got everything from electric scooters to trucks to buses. Yeah. We even did electric flying taxi investment recently. Mhmm. All over the world or in India specifically? A little bit all over the world, but more focused in that region. Yep. Have you seen Chinese electric vehicles, by the way? They're incredible. Right? They are unbelievable. It is the the innovation coming out of the Chinese OEM and EV business. It it's I've never seen anything like it. It's extraordinary. Why though? Why why are they so far ahead of everyone else now? Because of the competition. I I I think there there's this, belief, I'd say, from from The US and and a lot of, of of Western countries that China is a planned economy. Okay? And China is a plant economy from a strategic standpoint. And for example, you know, they want to get into manufacturing, EVs, etcetera. And so while that comes top down from the government, Then actually, the way these industries grow is every, you know, Chinese significant city or province, etcetera, wants their own EV, company to succeed. So in China now, there are over a 100 OEMs in China, well over a 100. And so then there's this bottoms up competition that's based on the top down strategy that the government sets. So you have the kind of the best of both worlds, which is you have industrial policy, but then the winners aren't whose buddies were the president. Right. The winners are who wins in a brutal competitive environment. So the winners, you know, coming out of China, the Geely's of the world, the BYDs, you know, these the they have been they've been through the ringer. And so it really is survival of fittest, and the innovation that we see and the speed of development there, it's it's extraordinary. In a free market, can anyone compete in ketchup? No tariffs, nothing, no reviews? In a free market, can anyone catch up to to China? Of course, people can catch up. I think that, you know, when you look at the Korean manufacturers, there's a ton of talent there. But I think if you look at my expectation as overall share, especially in the EV sector, on a global basis of EVs is going to be, is going China's way for a while. But individual, innovative OEMs, they're gonna do fine. So say I'm a scooter company in India. I don't have the scale that Chinese manufacturers or OEMs have today. How do I compete? Because they're building it a 100 of scale that I am. I mean, listen. It's, I don't have a I don't know enough about, the Indian industrial sector. Mhmm. But based on the innovation that I see out of India and the talent, there's gotta be a way to compete. You know, it's what we what I see out of India, it's very, very special. I think that, especially in IT industries, India really has risen. Mhmm. And I think manufacturing is still somewhat nascent relative to the size and potential of India, but there's no doubt we'll get there. I had this thesis that all vehicles will be electric by x amount of time, but the adoption team has slowed down. Why is that? Subsidies are going away. Yeah. So subsidies are going away now. I I do think that in, in Europe and China, it's definitely happening. I do think that it requires substantial investment over a long period of time in the infrastructure, charging infrastructure of cities. Mhmm. And so the societies that have continued to make way there, you are seeing the product, you're you're seeing EV penetration, continue to improve. And within Uber, you know, we are moving to EVs five times faster than the general public. So EVs inside of the Uber system are definitely increasing, and from my standpoint, I'm hoping that we continue to increase the penetration of EVs. And the next driver that you want, switching from a a combustion engine to an EV, is actually an Uber driver because the average Uber driver is driving four to five times the mileage of the average driver. So we continue to push it. We're still quite committed to, moving over to as much sustainable, both packaging for our restaurants and EVs. But I would say that it's gotten much harder over the past two years. So if I make the bet today by investing capital in the assumption that all vehicles will be EV, do you think it's still a fair bet? Yes. It's a better technology, but it's a question of you might wanna pick where you're investing. Give me some advice. Where should I? Well, China, no. There's too much competition, but I I think that there's still potential in Europe. And, you know, I I I look at the the the investments going into the charging infrastructure of local cities. That that's a signal that I would look for. Right. With everything you're building, Dara, funnily enough, I had to tell you this. There is a really popular wrestler, in India with the name Dara Singh. Really? Yes. I don't know if I should call you Dara because that's how we call it in India, or Dara as people. Right? Yeah. It's all good. Okay. With every Is he is he bigger than I am? I think so. I find that surprising. I've never met him, but I suspect he is. He's much bigger than me too. With everything you're building, Dara, is there a super app coming? Is that the eventual outcome? I think that, super apps seem to be particularly relevant in, in in Asia and China, etcetera. They've been quite successful there. They've had less success in Western markets. So I don't know if we will get to what you would call a super app, but we certainly wanna be a connected family of apps. So if you if you go on Uber now, Uber Mobility, we have Uber Eats available to you, and and people are are transacting billions of dollars of Uber Eats on the Uber Mobility app. Mhmm. And on on Eats, obviously, we have grocery, we have retail. You'll know next time you need a travel, adapter. And so the the we we have, I think, ecosystem Mhmm. That is making it increasingly easier for you to work from surface to surface or with with a membership, plan, Uber One, that gives you discounts on on both. So I absolutely know that we are building kind of this local ecosystem, that local OS of yours. Whether the physical manifestation is a super app or not, I don't know. And my you know, kind of the way I view it is I'm gonna I'm gonna let our engineers and our product folks kinda innovate, come up with the next idea, and then we'll go kinda one step in front of the other to to get to that outcome. I was thinking about this, and I did a little bit of research. Super apps tend to work in societies without as much rebellion, in more As much what? Rebellion. Yes. In pseudo socialist societies, in more capitalistic ones, everybody wants to bet on the new guy, the young guy. The same David Goliath argument. I mean, I think I I think there might be some of that, but there's also kind of, phone storage and capabilities. Mhmm. You know, having a separate app for all all these different services may, may be a lot. And I think in some of the more developed markets, people will pay for that last 10 or 20% of fine tuning that maybe a super app doesn't. Mhmm. So I don't know whether it's societal or it's a competition with society or technology coming together. It definitely hasn't worked in the West, though. Last question, Dara. You have been a successful investment banker, a two time CEO, Expedia, Uber, sometimes joining midway and really scaling the company. Mhmm. If you were me, a 20 year old boy or girl in India, and you had to start afresh, what would you build today, and who would you build it with? Who would your cofounder be? So I always think people people should know their own limits. I I am not a startup person. That's not my skill. I'm a scale person. Mhmm. You know, I'm not the person to to kinda start with with an idea fresh. And I have enormous respect for those rebels who think that they can do it on their own. My advice would be I've always said when when I give career advice to people is I look for three things. One is I want to work for people who I like and I can learn from. Second is I wanna go to a place where I as an individual can make a difference. Mhmm. And third, I wanna make a difference at a place that matters in the world, is making a difference in the world. And actually that's why, like, investment banking for me, like, great people. I thought I was pretty good, but it wasn't I didn't get that jazz. I wasn't changing the world. Mhmm. And so then when I saw Barry, I'm like, great. I don't wanna work for him. And we were, you know, really on this path of the changing of the world and hopefully helped it with travel as well. And and I was really you know, I thought I was gonna run for Expedia for as long as Barry would help me. But then for me, Uber, the thing that really excited me was how important Uber was to the world and, you know, the difference hopefully that I could make as a as a CEO. I think a lot of young people, they kinda think too much about, like, how much money they're gonna make or this or that. It's like, work for people who you love or respect. Make a difference, and try to work at a place that's making a difference. And the rest takes care of itself. Thank you, Dara. This was a lot of fun. Thank you. And, hopefully, we do it again sometime soon. I think that'd be great. Thank you. Thank you. How did you hurt your hand? I was at camp, with my kids, and my son, Hugo is a keeper. Mhmm. And I used to be a keeper in, in high school as well. So I thought it was a good idea to to play keeper against him and all the other camp counselors, and I got carried away in my dog to to make him proud. So I I took this one for my boy.
