Michael Phelps, of course, is the most decorated Olympian of all time. If he was a country, he would have the third most swimming medals ever. Where did this obsession of winning come from? Hating to lose. I hate to lose more than I enjoy winning. How did this come up? One thing my coach took out of my vocabulary was the word can't because it's gonna be exponentially harder since you told yourself you can't. 28 medals. The second youngest male swimmer to qualify for a US Olympic team. And what goes on in your head before even the race does start? When I'm on the block, nothing. I'm like a dog trying to get out of the cage. Like, I'm just Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors? I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing on what I need in that moment. I don't give a shit about my competitors in that moment. When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full blown war. I wanna absolutely destroy some. Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor? No. I beat everybody. I didn't care who you were. I'm the shark in the water. If I smell that smallest ounce of blood, I'm gonna destroy. Watch me take it. Tell me about that phase, which is your 2008 Beijing where you won eight gold medals. History in Beijing for Michael Phelps. Eight for eight. In those two years, I felt unbeatable in the pool. I I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me, that could beat me. Training an interview which you gave, the interviewer asked you that you have won 28 Olympic medals in your life, and you said, no, there's 23 that count. I medaled in 28 out of 30 of my races at the Olympic games. 23 are only the ones that we need to talk to. So what is losing? We were second. We lost. Third place, we lost. I don't talk about the other five. Once I did make that Olympic team, when I got fifth, I was pissed because I didn't want a piece of paper that somebody said congratulations, you came and competed. I came because I wanted something around my neck. I'm there to hear my national anthem play. That's it. Tell me the first time you won the gold medal. I couldn't get caught up in that one moment, even though it was special. So that gold medal was like, alright, finished. What's next? Walk me through four, five techniques or certain things that you would do in that five, six years of training where you were truly preparing to win gold. We'd start in the morning with a training session, eat plates of food for breakfast, go home, take a nap, wake up, eat something else, go back to the pool, go home, eat, sleep, wake up and do it all over again. Every day for six years. Six year stretch where I didn't miss a single day. A lot of people say why and I say why not. There wasn't a single person on this planet during those twenty years, pretty much of my career, that was more prepared than me. That's why I got the results that I got. Five Olympic games, 28 medals, 23 of them gold, 39 world records. If this man was a country, he would have been the third highest country with the medals. There is no other human being. There is no other athlete in the world who has achieved this much in a single sport as much as this person has achieved. He's a beast. He's a maniac. He's achieved numbers that no human has ever touched. He's achieved numbers that might never be touched again. And for six years straight, this man trained every single day. No Sundays off. No holidays. No Christmas. Nothing. No excuses. How did he build this beast wild mindset? While the world was moving, he was training like a maniac. He was obsessed trying to be better, faster just by one second, just by half a second. And today, on figuring out, we're sitting with this piece, the absolute quote. It's an honor to do the podcast with Michael Phelps. The greatest athlete, the greatest Olympian, the athlete, which has never existed before and the world has never seen. And in this conversation, we're going to figure out what it actually takes to absolutely become the champion and to build a mindset of a beast so that you kill it every time you enter the arena. This podcast is like the master class of an athlete mindset. If you wanna win this year, watch this till the end. You know, actually, before I even I even start this, how about 40.01% people who have no clue who you are, Why don't you tell us, Michael, who are you? I was a swimmer at one point in my life. Won a couple of gold medals, broke a couple of world records, competed in five Olympic Games. I'm a father of four now. I have four boys, nine, seven, six, and almost two. Yeah. And I think a lot of what I try to do now is is really promote healthy and active lifestyles, whether that's water safety with my foundation, or it's really trying to open up the world to the importance of mental health. You know, I think for me going through what I went through the tail end of my career, really helped me explore more about who I am. But also I think with me Showing my vulnerability and opening up and talking about the struggles that I go through. I've been able to hear others or see others that have become vulnerable around me and shared what they go through. And for me, I think the second part is way bigger than the first part, because the second part we're dealing with life and death. The first part was awesome. It was like, don't get me wrong. It was incredible hearing my my national anthem play and, you know, winning a bunch of gold medals. But, you know, the fact that life and death is also in play with so many people. I think I I just tried a stat. My wife just sent it to me yesterday. It was this is kinda crazy to me. Suicide's the second leading cause of death for people ten to thirty four. So for me, that's why I say the second part is so much. It's so much bigger. You know, just being again, being able to save a life, is a thousand times better than winning an Olympic gold medal. And for me, just being able to have the platform that I had that I have, to give me the chance to to speak what I'm passionate about is is really special. Let's try to understand both the phases of your life. Part one, part two. But before we go there, I wanna understand something about you when you were a child, like, from the beginning. Tell me what do I need to understand about you when you were 10 years old. You were unable to sit in a class. You saw your parents' relationship falling off. You were restless and not able to just cope up with everything which normal kids do. What do I need to understand about that, Michael? Which has me understand everything that came after. Yeah. I mean, I think for me, you know, going back even before 10, you know, when I was seven years old, I was, you know, nonstop kind of bouncing off the wall. You know, I was always around the pool. My two older sisters swam, so I was around the pool all the time. So water safety was, something that was a big priority for my mother. And, and, you know, once I was in the water and I was safe there, you know, I was just kind of playing around the pool all the time. So that's when I got into the water. And then the water was kind of a release for me. You know, being able to kind of swim as hard as you want to go faster with, you know, anger, if you might have it with something that I enjoyed. Yeah, it wasn't great dealing with anger as a seven, eight, nine, 10 year old kid. But for me, it was an outlet. And it was something that that, you know, I ended up falling in love with. And, yeah. I mean, I I remember in, middle school, I was told, by my teachers that I would never by excuse me, by a teacher, that I would never amount to anything. And I still remember her name, and and I still remember what she looks like. I still remember where I was sitting in the class. And I think at that point for me, I used it as motivation. You know, the fact that a teacher, number one, would say they're doubting a student and not knowing how to deal with them, I think is saddening. It's upsetting. But for me, I was like, watch this. I'm gonna prove you. And I think at the time, that was pretty much when I had stopped taking, Ritalin, which was for my ADHD. So my ADHD, I literally was like, I I was all over the place. I was leaning back in the chair on the back legs, leaving dents on the, in, on the floor in the classroom, always getting sent to the principal's office. And honestly, I just had a really hard time sitting still. And at that point, my mom was, you know, I was playing baseball. I was playing lacrosse. I was playing soccer, and I was swimming. I was playing all these different sports just to try to get the energy out of me. My mom was just like, I don't know what to do with them. And it's crazy. Fast forward now to where I'm 40 and I have four kids. It's the same way. Their kids are nonstop. But I think, you know, going back to that point, I I think swimming really gave me something to focus on. Yeah, I was that, well, I still am that kind of add kind of all over the place jittery, like kind of always moving around. Like that's just who I am. That's my personality. So, you know, I think over time I naturally took something that somebody labeled me with having or being a less than I'm a kid. I took that into into almost really making it a superpower, because it gave me the ability to focus on things that I was really passionate about. But, so your teacher said she must have noticed and the rest of the world just noticed how you were as a kid or as clear as not able to sit anywhere. What do you think that teacher didn't get or the world didn't get about that kid who was not able to sit properly because you definitely had something in you and you I just thought she didn't know how to whether it's a lack of better way of saying it. Like, I didn't, I don't think she wanted to deal with me or knew how to deal with me or knew how to handle me or knew, or knew how to taught me, teach me. Right. Like she didn't, she just didn't know. And you know, like for me, like my mother has been in education for fifty years. You know, like, that's her passion. Her passion is being in the classroom to try to make an impact for a student, to try to help them take whatever they're learning in that year, that classroom, and catapult it to help them into the rest of their life, to help transform them into what they wanna be. And all of those steps need to happen. But when a teacher, you know, instantly shuts down on a kid, it just doesn't look good for the teacher. But, I mean, I think I got, like, a c in her class. So, like, let's be honest. I was kind of like, just get me out of here. You know, like, that was my least least favorite class that I went to every single day. English. I hated English. You know? And and maybe it was how she was teaching it to me because I had teachers that were great. You know, like, I had teachers throughout my my, elementary, middle, and high school where they were awesome. And they helped me understand when I had problems learning what everybody else was learning faster than what I was learning. Or if I was learning things faster than everybody else, then she gave me he or she gave me stuff to help me stay focused. Right? Like, I I think it's just everybody has a different mind and everybody is able to handle or control as much as they can. And she just didn't know what to do. It was sad. And I'm sure there still are teachers out there in the world that are like that. And it is it is unfortunate. It is sad. But to the kids out there who do have an experience like that, know that there are other outcomes that can happen in life. I mean, people doubted me in the swimming pool too. And honestly, like for me, again, it was just it was a form of motivation. That was it. You know, like if somebody wants to doubt me, like I've been on this kick lately where I've just been firing off quotes on Instagram, just like on my story, just ripping quotes off. That just like hit me in the morning. And I'm like, I'm a big quotes person. And and, you know, like throughout my career, my coach would always put quotes on the top of the workout, motivating quotes or just quotes that people need to hear that for me that I need to hear, you know, for for whatever you're going through life. So, yeah, I can Which one's your favorite quote now? I mean, my my favorite quote is actions speak louder than words. You know, like, that's that's one of my all time favorite hands down quotes because it it's true. You know, like you can say whatever you want, but if your actions don't back up those words, then all it is is just a bold face lie. You know, so, you know, for me, like throughout my career, like I wanted to, you know, break this world record, win this gold medal, whatever it was. And I knew that there had to be a process on how to get there. Right. Like, I can't just say it and snap my fingers. There had to be, you know, every single day, little baby things that were stacked on top of each other and little baby steps that were heading towards that goal. And if I was taking steps backwards, then I'm just cheating myself. What what do you think? You said water became your escape and you were just always in the pool taking out your anger and everything. Like it became a coping mechanism in some sort and you were always in the pool. What do you think? What did water give you emotionally, which nothing else could? I mean, my kids call me Aquaman now, so I guess it's kind of fitting. You know, I, I don't know. I think thinking back to it and, you know, kind of being able to dive through my career a little bit inside the pool. I was super sensitive to every little part of the water in my body. Right. So like when I would swim, I'm feeling the water in the Palm of my hands. Like that's where I'm feeling all the pressure. So if my shoulder, my, my arm or my body is not a certain way, then I'm not able to feel that. So it's all trial and error and trying to get in the right position. And naturally I think, you know, for me just being submerged in water, I just felt at home. I don't know, for lack of better terms. Like, you know, even better even like now, if I go into a big depression state or I'm just in a grouchy mood for a couple of days and workout hasn't helped. And, you know, my normal routine hasn't helped whether it's the cold tub or the sauna. You know, I'll just get, you know, my wife will just kick me out of the house and say, go go jump in the swimming pool. Because it's it's kind of like the only place where I, I don't have anybody talking to me. I don't have to think about stroke. I don't have to think about what I'm having for dinner or what I'm making for dinner or what I'm doing tomorrow or this or that. I'm just there in the moment. Right. Like I can just be and I can swim for 500, which is, I mean, minimal compared to what I used to swim. Or I could swim 2,000. It doesn't matter. Like just being able to be back in the water, being back into that environment, I think is kind of one of my reset switches. That kind of just levels me out. Do you think you were running away from something or you were swimming away from something or swimming towards something? I think I found swimming. Yeah. As an outlet, but I think, you know, the reason why I found swimming is my two older sisters swam as well. So, you know, for me kind of seeing what they were doing and my middle sister, Whitney was traveling all over the world and she was on world championship teams. I was like, wow, that seems pretty cool. Like she was trying to go to the Olympic games. And I was like, yeah, I want to go to the Olympic games. Like, hell yeah. Like who doesn't want to go to the Olympic games? And I just kind of followed. And, and, you know, naturally as a kid, if you learn that you get good and you start getting faster, you kind of think, how fast can I get? And that's kind of what I did. You know, like from the start until the end of my career, I was kind of like, all right, how how much faster can I get? Can I drop a second? Can I drop a half a second? Can I drop two tenths? Like, what is the maximum potential that I have inside of me? And how can I challenge myself in different ways? Something for me, like, again, like I would scream underwater. You can't hear me. Like I would call my coach every single fucking name on the planet. Like, sorry for profanity, but like like I literally would like it because there were times where I was so frustrated and so angry and there was nothing else I could do, whether it was like my body was in pain. I mentally couldn't do it or I felt like I couldn't do it. I would just scream. And then naturally, I would still get through it and it would go well and blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. But it's like in that moment, like for me, screaming was one of those things. I would just let everything out. And it's something like, you know, we've taught our kids. Again, we have four boys and the emotions get high. So, you know, we taught them this thing called a lion breath, where you take a deep breath and you roar like a lion and you scream as loud as you can. And again, with, I mean, the younger one doesn't scream that much, but like the three older ones, it's a lot of noise, but it's again, like we find once they're able to do that, their shoulders drop a little bit, and they're able to have that conversation of what big feelings, emotions they're going through inside instead of carrying them along through life. Can you show me what what is it? Like, what's a lion breath? You don't want me to scream in here. It's okay. You can just show it like a little bit of a small version of it. Ah. And you obviously, you can scream as loud as you want, but it's it's literally just take a big, big, big, deep breath in and just scream as loud as you possibly can. And naturally, naturally, when when you do that, your shoulders do drop a little bit. Right. You are able to kind of come back to Earth. Right. Be your normal self. Like I always joke there was the candy, the Snicker bars commercial. It's always they always show them here, but it's it's, it's a commercial where it's like you take a bite of a Snickers and you just feel like your normal self. Like, I feel like that's what that's what it is. Like, what Snickers is saying, like when you have a sugar low, you get some sugar and naturally you feel better. But here it's like, If you're stressed or you're frustrated and you take that deep breath, you're able to be like, Okay. So why am I going through that? What feelings and emotions am I going through? And you're able just to get it all out. Like for me, it's, you know, there are a bunch of different things that I do. I don't do lion breast that often, but, when I'm in the pool, it's very easy to do it. But, yeah, I mean, there's a checklist that I have for my own mental health. So you would so you used to scream inside the pool a lot. We're like underwater. Like underwater. Right? Like when I was going and taking like, when I was doing my streamlines off the wall and I was kicking underwater, I would there were a lot of f bombs that were set. Yeah. That was one of my favorite words to scream underwater. And people could hear it. Honestly, like when you're in a set, like, person next to me would be like, did you just scream? And you're like, mhmm. I did. I did. And they're like, alright. We have one more. And you're like, yep. We got one more repeat. Let's go. But it's it's just it's kind of like in the moment. Like, I feel like I needed I needed to do that just to get through. And everybody, I think, probably has something different. Right. But that that was just me. It was screaming underwater. It's same thing. Like when I'm in the weight room now, like, I was just traveling overseas and I was lifting in I think it was Mumbai. And I was in the weight room and I was like grunting. I was like, I know, like everybody in the gym, like, looked at me and I was like, oh, oh, shit. I'm looking into a mirror and everybody's face is staring right at you. But it's just kind of something that I do. I mean, I used to do it right when I get up onto the block, you know, right after I did my arm slap. It was something that I would always do. Just clear my throat. So is it you were screaming a lot because you were obsessed with trying to win? Or was it a lot of different things? It was probably, yeah, I wanted to win. I wanted to push through whatever I was going through or I was emotionally just ready to snap and screaming was something that would help me. Where did this obsession of winning come from? Was it hating to lose? But I hate to lose more than I enjoy winning. Even when you were, like, nine, 10, 11, how did this come up? I don't know. It was just something I always had. Like, I always felt from from when I was a little kid, like, there was there was there was no second place. That wasn't an option. It's just something that I always I mean, like, I remember winning home run derby at 10 or 11 years old. Like I was the biggest kid playing lacrosse playing long stick midi. Just slashing people at the stick. Yeah. I mean, winning and winning was everything. Yeah. Do you think it has anything to do with not getting your father's approval when you were a kid? The absence of I don't think so. Because, I mean, I would say a lot of it probably came from him, because he was he was kind of more of the athlete from my parents' relationship. He was a baseball player, a football player, track and field stud. He, I think he was the first person to get cut from, the Washington Redskins back in the day, when they were the Redskins. So, winning or trying to be the best is something that that in sports was something that he was he was very good at. Like competition in sports, that was something that he excelled in. I would say my sister, Whitney and I are uberly competitive, more competitive than my older sister, Hillary, especially in sports. There's there's just. Yeah. I mean, for us, again, there was just there was no second place. You know, for me, it ended up becoming preparation, right? Like preparation is everything. If you're not prepared, then. You're going to get second or you're going to get third or you're going to get last. Right. Because there's always somebody that is overly prepared or more prepared than you are, no matter what. So for me, I just became that person. There wasn't a planet there. There wasn't, there wasn't a single person on this planet. During those twenty years, pretty much of my career. You know, I had a couple losses that I can name for through my Olympic career, but there wasn't another person on this planet that was more prepared than me. Not period. There wasn't. That's why I got the results that I got. It's not rocket science. It's not. I put in the work, I got the results. That's it. Let's let's go to your preparation time. And when you first started with your coach and first, when your coach spotted you, in the same year, he went to your mother and said that you're gonna win an Olympics, so you're gonna be in the Olympics. Right? What was that story? Tell me about it. My coach came to North Baltimore Aquatic Club where I was swimming or my sister swim long tradition of excellence with that club in Baltimore. You know, from 1984 until 2016, there was at least one person on every single Olympic team. Well, so my coach came in '96 or right before '96, maybe '95. Okay. And he was helping my sister's group a little bit, my middle sister's group a little bit prepare for, Olympic trials in the Olympic Games in '96. And then the group kind of split and he took over a different group. I think I'm think thinking I'm explaining this right way. And then I remember seeing him while I was that kid playing at the pool. You know, I was only swimming like three days a week. Like, I really wasn't training that much back then. And I would always play, play, play. And I would see him go up and down the pool, walk, run, arms up in the air, screaming, whistling. And I was like like, I remember being like, you know, like, if it was me back then what I was thinking, I would be like, there's no fucking chance I'm assuming for that man. Like, he is an absolute lunatic. Fast forward a year, I spent twenty years twenty plus years of my life with that man, and he is my only coach. But it it's kinda crazy because, you know, seeing it, you know, I think at that age, I was like, man, like, truly, like, this guy's nuts. But what I learned, it was just the passion that he has and that he that he had back then that he still has today. But did he come to you or you went to him? So, I was I was excelling in the group that I was in and I needed to be in a higher group. And I was 11 years old at this time. And the kids that were in that group were like 14, 15, 18 years old, like way older, way more mature. But I was faster than them. So I ended up swimming in that group and I got to that group. And, and, but before I got there and my coach sat down with my parents and I, and he's like, well, look like if, if your son wants to make the Olympic team in four years, he can make the Olympic team as an 11 year. I was 11 years old. But he's like that. He said that to me. And he's like, but look, he's like, you got to stop playing baseball, lacrosse and soccer. But for me, like looking back now, like those playing those four different sports, I think naturally gave me a better body awareness. Like the more I talk to the professional athletes from all sports, all walks of life. Now that's the same thing they did. Playing multiple sports. Don't be super hyper focused on one sport, but at a certain time, there's then going to be a decision that you have to make it. It's it's just naturally, I feel like that's how it is in sports. If you really want to be the best at one sport, there's best at one sport, there's a you have to make a decision at some point, just because of the process of development, this, that, and the other. But back then, yeah, he he sat down and said that. And I was like, alright, kinda like fine. Like, I'll stop playing these other sports. I'll focus on swimming. No problem. And, playing these other sports. I'll focus on swimming. No problem. And I just remember back then I was I was the Energizer Bunny. Like, he basically would wind me up and I would just go or he would say jump and I would say how high. Because he gave me that vision of wanting to go to the Olympic Games to then make the dream of winning an Olympic gold medal. Even bigger? Because, you know, I just thought about going and then I'm like, maybe I could win. Right? Like that would be pretty cool. When you were 11 and he said that to you for the first time that you could go to Olympics the next four years, did you believe it? Or did you act act like someone who believed it until it actually became true? I believed it because he showed confidence in me. As an 11 year old. Something that he saw of me in the pool gave him confidence that he could do that. He had already trained and worked with previous Olympic coaches, Olympic athletes, and he saw something. And honestly, I think back to the question you asked earlier, you know, he then became a father figure in my life. Right. Because, I mean, I literally spent twenty five years traveling the world with him. Right. So, I mean, like basically my whole entire life was hand in hand with him. Everything we did swimming related was together. And and, you know, I think once I did make that Olympic team, that really, really made me trust him. Because I was like, like, like for me, because I know you said don't skip, but like when I made that Olympic team and I got fifth, I was pissed, but I was hungry. Right. Because I didn't want a piece of paper that somebody said, congratulations, you came and competed. It's not why I came. I came because I wanted something around my neck. That's it. So I remember that day after my Olympic final in Sydney, the workout paper he wrote down, it said w R on the top of it. And for people who don't know, that means world record. And I was like, what's this? Because you're gonna break a world record in six months. I was like, okay, sure. Let's see what happens. Sure enough. Six months later, I break a world record. So like, again, like that's where the whole trust really, really opened up. But, but, you know, I think through, you know, from the time I got with him to the time I was 15, he basically just broke my strokes completely apart. Like he started from scratch. You know, I had some good things going on with my body and how I swam and the reach. Obviously, I have super long arms, long wingspan, short legs, really strong legs, short but wide. My, my, my quads are huge. So for me, like when I got to him at 11 years old, I still remember back in the day. So people who don't understand swimming, a six beat kick is three kicks per one stroke. So it's one, two, three with your legs per one stroke. So he was teaching me the importance of a six beat kick. It wasn't at 11. I forget what age it was, but, He said every time you drop your legs in a practice and you don't do a six speed kick, I'm going to kick you out. And the first day I got through like 500 of a 6,000 yard workout. Kicked me out next day. 2,000 kicked me out next day. 2,500 kicked me out next day. 3,000 kicked me out next day. 4,000 kicked me out by the end of the week. I got to a full workout. And from that day forward, I never dropped my feet for a single stroke of freestyle for the rest of my career. Did I agree with what he was doing? No, it sucked getting kicked out. It was absolutely miserable sitting there watching my friends train and, and, and be in a practice. But I learned the importance of the small technical points that you have to have in order to be able to go wherever you want to go. Right? Like it's almost like a college level class. You can't take the thousand level class without taking the one through nine. Right. Like, so there's a process through it all. And he taught me that process throughout my career and we were able just to sharpen up those tools. Right. Like that's really all it became. Because, you know, throughout my career, we ended up ended up just trying to shave off hundreds of a second. How do you shave off five, one hundred to the second? Is it a turn? Is it a kick? Is it a streamline? What is it? Is it dive angle? Like what? How do we do it? Right. So it's trial and error. But it all started from those years, when we first started working together. I mean, whether it was mindset, whether it was goal setting, whether it was preparation, routines. You know, that's where stretching came into play, all that stuff to just get your body prepared. My warm ups were the same at every single meet from the time that I was 13 or 14 to the time I retired. It didn't change. 8642 or 6442. Every single warmup. Who was more ambitious? You or your coach? You could probably say both of us at different stages of my career. So I think leading up to 2008, I don't think there was anybody more ambitious than me. Post like 2004 or 2008 to 2012. He was way more ambitious. He wanted, and I just wanted nothing to do with the sport. And then when I came back, I think we both wanted it When I came back to finish in '16, we were both equally as hungry and wanting to do. Or wanting to finish, I guess, what we had started the right way. Because, I mean, I've said this and I'll say it a thousand times more, like there's not a coach on this planet that could have helped me. Coach me to be able to do what I was able to do. Not a single person. I was an asshole. I was a little shithead to coach. I know it. And he'd say it too. And I'd say the same about him. But, you know, I think again, like it's the passion that we had and, and we learned a lot about each other through the process. Right. It was, you know, he had to adapt. I had to adapt because I wasn't that 11 year old kid that he once started working with when I was 30. Right. So just that change that we had to go through was, was, was important for us to have the, the relationship that we had for as long as we had. You, your coach also said people around you, everybody, to not to say the word Olympic. What was when was that? What was that story? I mean, my mom, when I made the Olympic team in 2000, she, like, fully decorated the front yard with, like, all these American flags and like this, that and the other. And my mom was or my coach's Bob goes, this is the last time you're ever going to do this. Never again. And I think because it's like. I I mean, I think looking back at it now, I would say because the goal wasn't just to make the Olympic team. That wasn't the goal. The goal is to win an Olympic gold medal, not just be a part of the Olympic Games, but win the Olympic games, be a champion at the Olympic games. So I think once you get caught up in just making the Olympic team, then sometimes you might slip and not pay attention to the small details that are gonna help you be your best self at the Olympic games. Right. Like, I mean, I see it and I see it with athletes that have been on Olympic teams with me. Right. Like they have this dream of making an Olympic team it's making, you know, that's it just getting there. It's not actually doing my best time at the Olympic games and potentially coming home with hardware. That was my goal from day one when I had my first Olympic race. You got to go. Yes. But it's how do I get faster than my trials swim? Right. For me, I wanted to drop. So in The U. S. We have Olympic trials and top two people in each individual event get to go. There's over 2,000 summers at that Olympic trials and a maximum of 52 people will be on Olympic team, 52 out of 2,000 plus. And those 2,000 will also come from like all over the place. Yeah. So like, but like, you know, I think it's just like, God, I just lost a train of thought. What was it talking about? You're talking about your Olympic. Oh, yeah. Yeah. Okay. Now I got it. You always wanted to just win the medal. Yeah. But like for me, like when I made my first Olympic team in 2000, it was about dropping a second from Olympic trials to the Olympic Games. Drop one second. If I can do that, then I'm in I'm in the realm of winning an Olympic medal. Right. So I dropped ninety eight one hundredths of a second, and I missed a medal by less than three tenths. And I had to wait another four years to have another chance. How did you feel like you were 15 when you entered Olympics? You were the youngest in the world to do that. Youngest since 1932. And then you, you end up coming fifth, sixth, fifth. How did you feel? First time, 15 year old, youngest person. Pissed. Upset. They gave me a piece of paper like you have in front of you that says, good job. You competed. You got fifth. I don't want to get fifth. I'm not there to get fifth. I'm not. I'm there to hear my national Anthem play. That's it. I mean, obviously that was a stretch for me at that time, but I think having that opportunity of getting fifth and representing my country and being at the biggest stage at such a young age, I think just only prepared me naturally for what was going to come. But you messed up in your first Olympics game. Right? I think you, you forgot your paper. Oh, yeah. I forgot my credential. Well, I didn't forget my credential. I took my roommate's credential. I was roommates with another one of the younger guys in the team. And and, I we had our credentials just on, like, the handle of a door. Mhmm. And I just ended up grabbing his instead of mine. We looked nothing alike. So, I ended up going to the pool and they wouldn't let me in the pool. I didn't have my credential. And I tried to go back to the village and I couldn't get on the bus or get back in the village because I didn't have a photo of me on my credential. So that kind of delayed my warmup and my process of getting ready, the slightest bit. And I mean, I don't think that threw me off. I mean, because still, I didn't even tie my suit before the race. My, my strings of my suit were just tucked into my, like the top of my suit, which is, I mean, they're not going to fall off. The suits are so tight and so small. They're not going to fall off no shot, but I mean, I just wasn't prepared. You know, I think. The biggest thing I learned from that moment is, is just understanding what needs to take place at the most pressured moment. Right. You know, like for me, yeah, I've gone to the Olympic trials, but I never experienced what an Olympic games was, what a swim meet on different soil feels like. And especially in Australia where swimming is the number one sport. Right. I mean, the floor was shaking. I remember vividly the floor was shaking because there was an Australian in my heat next to me who ended up getting third. I mean, like, literally, like, it was it was vibrating. There's 18,000 people on one side and then all the media and the dignitaries are on the left. And, yeah, I mean, like, everything just threw me off. Like, what was going on in your mind? I was a deer in headlights, just scared, not really knowing what the hell to do, but I knew that I had to just get up on the block and race. And that was something that, you know, still to this day, like I miss, like I, I loved. I loved competing. I loved racing more than anything on the planet. A chance for me to get up versus the rest of the world or versus the, like my teammates, my competitors in The US and have a chance to show who is the best. Yes. Every single time. Because naturally, like, I'll always go to that, that next level because I, I, I don't like to lose. So yeah, getting fifth, it was terrible. It sucked. But again, like I truly believe had I got a medal. 2004, it might've been different. Right. You know, like me falling short of a goal there probably gave me more motivation to rip into that next four years to make sure I don't have that feeling again. I don't have that sadness or that disappointment again. Yeah. It took me a lot to just to make the Olympic team, but still like getting there again, you got to wait four years. I don't want to wait another four years. So again, like I want everything to be perfect when I have that chance. And I think having 2000, I think gave me the chance to do my trial run-in 2004 to prepare for what was to come in 2008. So when you when you came fifth with the paper, you came home. And now you are like I don't even know where that paper is. Whatever that thing is. Honestly, like, it's just like, like a participation. Yeah. Like and she's like here. And I'm like, I don't want it. And then you came home and you're thinking like 2004 is gonna be my year. I'm gonna come back home with gold medal. If I could place a camera in your head, what was going on in your head? Like first day when you just came back from Well, I knew it. You know, like back to that story of getting back into training the day after, you know, that's something that that naturally athletes don't do coming off an Olympic games, right? Like you, you kind of. Take that four weeks, like two to four, four to six weeks, four to eight weeks, kind of just to recover, to get back into that cycle, to prepare for an Olympic games. But for me, it was. Right back into it because it in the sport of swimming, when you miss one day, it takes you two days to get back to where you were. So if you miss two months, it's going to take you four months to get back to where you were. So for me, from 2000 into 2001, I didn't miss a step. Right. I was right back into training. I mean, I went back into training. I mean, I would say I probably did a five ks over five ks. I think I did like eight, two hundreds or ten, two hundreds backstroke long course in lane one. In the Sydney Warmup pool the day after the 200 fly in 2000. And on the top of the paper, it said w r in six months at nationals. And I went to nationals six months later, which are world championship trials, for that following summer in Japan. And the last 50, I came back on the existing world record holder at the time, Tom, And I ran him down ten, fifteen meters to go. And I broke the world record one fifty four ninety two. And that kind of catapulted me into that next summer. I won my first world championship at at 16 and re broke the world record. And then from that point forward, re broke it in 2002, re broke it in 2003, re broke it in 2004 when I won the gold medal. It was just did I? No, I didn't break it. I didn't break it in 2000. Not not winning the gold medal, but I did break it in that year, in that calendar year. I just wanted a tear. And I think kind of once I got that taste of success, like I was saying earlier, that was, you know, for me, it was, what else can I do? How much faster can I go? And I think that's when we started expanding something different events, right? Like I was showing the 200 I'm I started swimming the 400. I am the a 100 fly, the 200 free, the 200 back. In 2008, I was the American record holder in the a 100 freestyle. I just became super versatile and that was something that we started back early when I was working with Bob. Cause we had a goal back then of trying to be top 10 in the world in every single stroke, butterfly, backstroke, breaststroke, and freestyle. But you took four days off from 2,000 to 2,004. Pretty much. Yeah. Because I had wisdom teeth. I think maybe like I wouldn't even say I got sick. Like I, I mean, even if I was sick, I was still in the water. I was still training. Because you're so obsessed with training and you believe that even one day off is going to take you two days back. Why do you even take four days off then? Well, I had to, I mean, I had to later in my career for certain surgeries. I had hand surgeries throughout my career. But I think at that point it was, if I'm not taking the opportunity that I have, then somebody else is going to take that opportunity away from me. And I want the opportunity to be mine. So for me, it was, you know, I think it was all about control. What can you control? I can control not getting sick by taking care of my body. Right. So I think naturally over time I learned how to take care of my body. But you don't feel guilty. On the days when you were off, do you feel bad? Like shit? Like It sucks. Yeah. Like, I mean, it it it sucked because I was missing an opportunity and a chance. But once you're going through surgery, if you have surgery, then it's kinda like you need to give your body some kind of recovery. I don't think it really hurt taking those days off. Because I think then after that, I was like, I went on a six year stretch or I didn't miss a single day. And a lot of people say why? And I say, why not? Right. There's no blueprint on how to win eight gold medals. There's no blueprint on how to break 39 world records. There was no blueprint on how to win 23 Olympic gold medals. The only thing you can do is trial and error. For me. Yeah. I mean, I, I would say I became obsessed, but I think it's that fine line between obsession and passionate that I always started with. And I was over, I was overly passionate about trying to be the absolute best, you know, for me at such a young age, I, I, I had a goal of, of doing something that no one has ever done in the sport and also changing the sport and taking it to a new level. So there wasn't going to be anybody that was going to stand in my way of doing that. No, I looked up to Michael Jordan and what he did, you know, on the court of, on the basketball court. And, and, you know, no matter what he was going through physically, mentally, personally, you know, when he was out there performing, he left every single ounce on the basketball court. You know, he had the flu and the flu game still dropped what? Fifty, forty, 45, like, yeah. Right. Like there was just no excuses. Right. So, For me, every single day is an opportunity to get better. No matter how yesterday went, if you had a bad day yesterday, today is a different day, period. That's it. You can't live in the past and you can't live in the future. You know, you can do this live in the present. Walk me through four or five techniques or certain things that you would do in that five, six years of training where you were truly preparing to win gold. You know, I'll tell before you actually go there, I'll tell you one of the most watched Michael Phelps video is a clip by me, which is funny on the Internet because I was researching for this this, podcast and I I typed on YouTube the most watched Michael Phelps. And in that clip, I'm explaining where in one interview, he said that there was there was a faith in your life probably six, seven years where somebody is asking you that what was the what's the reason of your success? Why do you win? And you say, just train every day. Yeah. And they say It's just small things. Yeah. I mean And then you said, no train every day. Yeah. No Christmas. Yeah. I train every day. Nothing. No flu. Just train every day. And that that clip is ruined for some reason. But explain to me what happened in those six years. I mean, it's, it's, it basically really is what can you control? What is in your control every single day? And it's like you're eating, you're sleeping, you're drinking water, you're stretching. If you're sore, you're lifting. If you're trying to get stronger, you're working on your endurance and staying in your endurance level, working on heart rate. If that's what you're trying to improve, there are so many different little small things that you can do depending on what your goals are. So for me, it's, it's how can I be prepared every single day? Right. So like, if I go back to that point, you know, after the two thousand Olympic games, like it wasn't, you know, it was probably 2002, 2003 where I started doing ice tubs. Right. So it's recovery. How can I re how can I recover my body and my mind every single day to make sure that my body, if I'm treating it like a Ferrari and I want it to go that fast every single day, I have to recover? I have to treat my body with, with love. Right. So if I'm not eating, if I'm not stretching, if I'm not drinking water, if I'm not sleeping, if I'm not staying off my feet, if I'm not all of these small things, then I don't have a chance to be my best during those two to four hours when I'm in the pool every single day. So it became literally a full time job. The age of 15, 16, because I mean, I was professional at 15 or 16 years old, so I treated it like a job. Everything I did was eat, sleep, and swim. Sure. I was in school. And I I I was in school through high school, and then, I took six months of credits at Michigan and decided that I needed to focus on swimming. And that's what I did. But, yeah, I mean, like, it it was your coach like Like, we'd start in the morning with a training session, And then I would go and eat a bunch of plates of food for breakfast just to recover from the, you know, 7,500 yard workout we just did. Go home, take a nap, wake up, eat something else. Go back to the pool. Train for two hours. Go home. Eat, sleep, wake up, and do it all over again. It literally like, it became a job at such a young age. Every day for six years. Every day. Yeah. So but your coach also created adversities during the training. What was what was it like? Why would you train, like, like, put do it in the dark, do it without water, do it I mean, like, there were so many different things he tried to do just to fit or just to mentally prepare us, I think, for things that we were going to go through or could potentially go through. Then we was three. I mean, like he would break my goggles or step on my goggles on purpose to teach me to make sure I had a backup pair. And naturally in 2008, my goggles fill up with water. As soon as I dive in and I had to revert back to a training, a training habit that I did to help me count strokes to get through that race. And naturally I hit the wall at the right time, but I was able to win. And I was able to break the world record too. So, you know, I think the things that he did like breaking my goggles or, you know, like I I've had my chute rip. Right. And, and, you know, during that time, if you're getting ready for an Olympic final or a world championship final and your suit rips, your emotions are going to change. Right. So I was able to then because of what I went through, whether it's from the breaking the goggles or, or, you know, going 10 workouts a week where I'm going 10,000 meters every single session and going a 100 ks bang, bang, bang, just every week. I think it just gets you relaxed in those super high pressured, tense moments when all of these lights are on and there's millions of people staring at you. Oh, and by the way, we're swimmers. So we're half naked, you know? So it's like, but but I think that's what it was like. He was just, he was obsessed with with being over prepared. You know? Yeah. It's probably a little psychotic in ways, but, you know, looking back at it, I understand why he did what he did, why he challenged me mentally. When things were uncomfortable, right? Like, you know, I remember having to swim without goggles. It sucks. Your eyes hurt. Right? Like, they burn after swimming for two hours without goggles. Trying to swim a race without goggles. No. It's not fun. But after doing that, like, I learned. And naturally, like, my cap rips at the Olympic final as I'm getting ready to get up on the block for the four by 200 free relay. I have to naturally calm myself. I asked for a teammate's cap and I know that I can't represent his brand and I know I can't represent his name. So I had to flip the cap inside out and just some of the black cap, but in that moment, You're calm because you prepared for it. Right. So like, I mean, even like visualization, visualization is something that we did my whole, my whole entire career. And it would be three different ways. How you want, or you would play three different tapes, how you want the race to go, how you don't want the race to go. And what if, right. And how, and what if this happens in the race? How do you, how do you adapt? How do you adjust? Right. So it doesn't matter what happens whenever I get there. I'm prepared. If I lose my cat rips, my goggles break, they fill up with water. It doesn't matter because my emotions will stay in check. And if you can handle your emotions in the most tense pressured situations, then you're able to be the best version of you. Right. So like, you know, going back to 2008, I think it was, you know, for me, I think it was lacking better terms. It was like, I, I was in the matrix. Like literally time slowed down. Like I was just like, all right, cool. Like I'm more prepared. Let's go. But it's preparation and it's again. Yeah. Had I not done those six years? I probably don't get the exact results that I had. You know, like we always, this is something that, that, I always hope that people can relate to, but, when you're trying to accomplish a goal, You know, obviously it's not going to happen like that. It's not going to happen overnight. That has to be like little short interim goals through that process to reach the big goal. So through that process, my coach and I would always say, you know, Coming to practice that to deposit into the bank. Right. And four years from now, I hope our bank account is massive because when we go to the Olympic games, I want to withdraw that whole entire account and just put it on the table and say, let's go. Right. So it's, again, it's just a way of looking at preparation and what you're doing every single day, because greatness is really, it's just a bunch of small things that are done well stacked upon on top of each other. That's it. It's really not that hard. But, you said he was almost psychotic. What's the most psychotic thing you did? I mean, but him and I have gotten in so many different arguments and, and. I mean, it's almost like we were like a married couple. You know, just like fighting over, like, the smallest little thing. It's like, it's crazy. I mean, I remember there was a time, I forget how old I was, but, I mean, like I said, I was a little shithead. And we were doing four hundreds free long course, and I was supposed to be going, like, Under four twenty five or around like four twenty and, I wasn't, I was just going slower and just pissing him off on purpose. And he was like, you're going to go, you're going to go these times or we're going to start over. And I had like ten or fifteen seconds before the timer went off or we were about to do the next repeat. And I looked at the clock and I just didn't say anything. And right as I was getting ready to push off, I just said, no. I went back under the water and naturally when I was training, I always had to bilateral breathe. I had to breathe on both sides. So he was on my left side and I'd have to go three, right. Three left. So I ended up switching it that day because I went three on my right. And then I went to my left and saw him the first time. And I was like, fuck that. I ain't going back to that side. I just kept breathing to my right. I'll never forget. He came down to the other end, was chasing, throwing his arms up in the air, whistling, whistling like crazy. And he threw a bunch of kickboards and pool boys down on top of me as I was pulling her, as I was flip turning, I just kept swimming. I just kept swimming. We had a talk shortly after that. We both expressed some frustration. But, you know, again, I think it was just the passion that we both had. And, I wouldn't change it because, you know, I'm sure I did some things that, that pissed him off and frustrated him throughout our time together. And likewise, there are some things that he did that piss me off and, and, You know, if you asked me if I would change anything that I did or do it differently in any way, shape or form, I wouldn't, not at all. You know, I think it's, it's kind of allowed me to, be the person who I am now and feel comfortable in my own skin. So, and I was able to learn a lot through, again, the craziness that we went through. I mean, I've thrown water bottles at him. Like, it's it's been bad. Like, I I'm really sorry, grandpa. Sorry for bringing this all out. People have seen videos of it, though, because that was on a video. That was on a documentary that we did. No. It's just it it's it's the passion. And again, it's the frustration because, for us, we were trying to work in hundreds of a second. Right. You know, like two of my Olympic medals were one combined by five one hundredths of a second. Right. I won the 2,400 fly by four, one hundreds and then 2,800 fly by a 100. Right place at the right time. Yeah, for sure. But it's also hitting the wall at the right place at the right time with the right amount of force and momentum and speed, but it's also being able to judge when to go all out and when not over swim a race and this, that and the other. So again, it's like everything we did, it was, it was a full blown chess match. And we were able to damn near perfect it. Or I only I broke seven world records and won eight gold medals. It should have been eight for eight in o eight, but it was eight for seven in o eight. So, but yeah, it was, it was awesome. And I think it, again, like having the opportunities that I had later in life, whether it's 2004 or 12 or 16, I don't like talking about 12 because I hate that Olympics because I didn't swim very well. But. It wouldn't have been possible without those things that I did back in the early two thousands. Right. Like, you know, from 2004 or 2000 to 2004. And then that transition from 2004 to 2008 when we were at university of Michigan and, and, you know, we assembled the training group that we had there with, I mean, that was one of the most iconic training groups, you know, in my opinion, that we've had. There was every single day there was there was a handful of the guys that were just going at each other. And by by saying at each other, it was just competition after competition after competition, every single stroke that you took during practice. And it was, it was something that I just thrive from. I, I loved being in that kind of environment. You know what I really love about you and your coach partnership, the more I read about it, I'll tell you what I really love about you and your coach. You both kept each other on very high standards. There was an incident I was reading where he didn't show up because he was sick. And you texted him that, why would I have a coach if I have to coach myself? So I said, like, I was ruthless. Like, I was absolutely ruthless. I was such a jerk. But it was like any any time that I had the chance to come back at him, I I took it. And I was like, I remember that. I was like, why the hell am I swimming for somebody else? Like, you're my coach. Like, if you're not here, why the fuck am I here? I think I literally said that. Also to the point because I I knew it would piss him off. Like there would be times where I would just say things on purpose to make him mad because it was fun and I just enjoyed it. I enjoyed getting under his skin. And I also knew that if I did ever want to get kicked out and I didn't like the practice, that I could make him pissed off and say something. And he would he would he would toss me. So there weren't many times like that. But yeah. I mean, I there I I knew what to say to get a reaction, and that's what I wanted. I wanted a reaction. And And one thing that you just mentioned, your coach, you guys did almost every day. There was a videotape technique, the visualization in your head. Yeah. Walk me through it. If somebody who's watching this right now, someone like me who wants to become an absolute champion in whatever they are doing, what is that visualization technique? Like, what would you do sit down in your room every day? I would just lay down. It would be like, You know, like if I'm getting ready to go to practice or, you know, if I just have, like, thirty minutes to lay down on the couch or lay down my bed and just visualize it would just be. So what do you think? Let's just walk around. Yeah. So it would be like what's going on in your head right now. Like in a perfect situation, like, say, I'm swimming the 200 butterfly. If I'm swimming the 200 butterfly, like, what does a perfect race look like? A perfect race looks like a great start. Good entry. Eight to 10 doffing kicks, pop up right before 15 meters, take 16 to 17 strokes at first 50, hit the wall with speed and momentum on a full stroke, get out into open water, kind of make the the rest of the competitors deal with my wake and my waves and make them fight through that. So it's harder for them and they have to use more energy. Hitting the wall, breaking a world record, how the race doesn't, or, you know, yeah. I mean, like the perfect scenario, like no matter what it is, are you going in for a work pitch and you're trying to get your company to, or you're trying to get another company to sign your company? Yeah. Then it's a home run. Like the, you know, how, like the perfect video is your vision of it going perfectly, how you want it to, how you dream it to be, how you don't want it to go is you get touched out by a hundredth of a second because you screwed up a wall or you misjudged a turn or you didn't have the right start or your preparation. Wasn't good. Your warmup wasn't good. Right. Like all of those things. So it's trying to almost really make sure your ducks are in, in a line and every little small piece of that puzzle is fit into the right spot. And then how the race could go would be. What if I wake up and they don't like all of a sudden they don't have the same food that I've been eating every other day? Or what if I wake up twenty minutes late or what if my suit rips or what if my cat rips or what if I get sick? Right. All of these things. Are already played out. So once I get to the Olympics or once I get to world championships, If it does happen, I'm like, all right, cool. If I get sick, doc, what do I need to do? Right. Like we got team doctor, doctor, what I need to do to make sure I can get out there to compete and be my best. All of those. Yeah. I mean, it's, it, again, it's, it's another form of preparation because I feel like. If you get into a situation that you are not prepared for, you haven't thought of, then you're not able to be your best self. Yeah. So I guess in a long way of saying it, it's controlling the controllables. Now, like controlling the controllables is something that, that, a dear friend of mine, Greg Harden taught me, back in 2004. And it's really just such an easy quote and a powerful quote because you can really relate it to so many things in life. Right? Like. If I'm thirsty. Right. You saw my water just explodes. I was trying to break the ice. I'm gonna have a drink of water. Right. Like if I'm tired, I'm going to go take a nap or I'm going to go to bed earlier tonight than I did last night. It's literally that simple. What do you need to get ready for a meeting? X, Y, and Z. You have a list. Do those three things. If you don't do those three things, you're not fully prepared. You're going to go to that meeting and you'd be like, shit, I wish I would have done that. Well, tough break because you didn't. Right. So and if you don't learn from doing it that way. To get ready for the next time, then what are you doing? Right. So it's it's it's just it's different ways to look at preparation. And for me, again, like I became obsessed with it because I wanted to have the opportunity to be great. I didn't want anybody else to take that opportunity from me. I wanted to earn it. So I prepared and I worked harder than anybody else did. Period. Would you play every day in your head that you're winning? No. Perfect race. No, that's just like, that's just for big meats. Like, I'm just doing I'm just visualizing for big meats. I'm not doing it for every day. Like, like, I'm not laying in bed tonight and being like, what's a perfect day tomorrow? Not tomorrow. Today tomorrow was like, no, like, it's like, it's more it's more just like six months before a race before a big meet. Like, you know, just kind of getting ready into that mindset. Because when that moment comes again, like, yeah, world championships, you get a little bit more often than the Olympic Games, but the Olympic Games, you gotta wait four years, no long four years is to just have a chance to go compete and represent your country at the Olympic stage. Like, it sucks. It's awful. But like, that's what I'm saying. Like, if you're not prepared, somebody else is. Especially at that level. Right. Because people do obsess. Right. And winning a gold medal, it's what to have the chance. Well, to win a gold medal, it's less than 1% of 1%. So but for six months you would play the perfect hiccups, the failure every day in your head. So there was an incident where you won a goal even when your goggles almost broke, like there were what there was water inside your goggles. You couldn't see there was blackout and you still won. How many times did you play that in your head? Or how many times did you practice with broken goggles before you even actually get that? Well, I think, you know, when my coach broke my goggles and I had to swim a race without having a pair of goggles, I think taught me to always have a backup pair. And when that happened, I was just like, Oh, shit, okay, I guess I got to figure out what I'm gonna do. And I think for me at that time, I reverted back to what I did in training, because every single one of my two hundreds throughout my career, every one of my 200 butterflies throughout my career when I was competing, first, second, third and fourth 50, all were the same strokes, Sixteen, seventeen, 18 and then 19 or 20, depending on how many kicks I took off the last one. So I was like, all right, cool. I'm just going to revert back to what I do. Because in training, we do these things called stroke and time fifties. So if you're trying to go thirty seconds, then you take 20 strokes, twenty nine nineteen twenty eight eighteen twenty seven seventeen. So for me, naturally, I just started counting my strokes after the first. Well, I guess right when I dove in because I realized I started counting my strokes as soon as I dove in because I realized that, they weren't going to stop leaking. And also I was unable to take my goggles off. Because when I would swim, I would wear my goggles, one cap, two cap, another cap. So I couldn't rip all of it off and swim with no cap or goggles. It would just it would just wouldn't be good. So I ended up counting my strokes at the first wall at sixteen, second wall at seventeen, third wall at eighteen, fourth wall is 19 or 20. I don't remember. But ended up, yeah, winning a gold medal, breaking a world record. And you can go back and look at that video. I was. Honestly pissed after I saw the time why I could have gone faster. I should have gone faster. I think I could have gone at least a half a second faster than that, for sure. 100%. Just because of the goggles. Yeah. I was I was firing on all cylinders going into the Olympic Games. But why would you be pissed? Because I broke a world record, you won the gold. I wanted to go faster. That's me. Like, honestly, I didn't hit the goal that I wanted. Right. The goal, the goal is hitting a certain time. It's not winning because it's not winning a gold medal. Because I know if I get to a certain time, I'm the only one that's thinking about doing it. I'm the only one that's doing stuff every single day to get there. So if I hit that time, the rest will take care of itself. Nobody else. Nope. Nobody else will win that gold medal. If I do that time. And what was going on in your head at that microsecond when you knew that goggles. Did you went like, did you go like, oh, shit. What do I need to do? There was nothing I could do at that point. I couldn't. That was out of my control. The only thing I could do was what was in my control and that was try to win the race with. What was at hand? I knew I was the most prepared person there. I just had to worry about my stroke. I had to worry about counting my strokes. That's all I did. Sixteen, seventeen, 18. And then bang, nineteen twenty ripped off. And as one fifty one five. I should have been one fifty point. Should have won one fifty for sure. I thought honestly, like I I truly thought I could break one fifty in the 200 butterfly at some point in my career. I only went one fifty one. I think I could have gone a second half faster at some point in my career. That that's insane. Even out of breaking a world record or winning goal, you would not be happy about it. But it's the goals. Right? Like, it's, you know, like like for me, like, I I just held myself to such a high standard and I put the most pressure on myself. Like, didn't matter what everybody else is saying or doing. The Mo that like the one person who put the most amount of pressure on me was me because it is in my control. Right. I'm not going to be able to skip two weeks a month, six weeks, eight weeks, and just wake up one day and break a world record. You have to do the work. If you're not doing the work, then skip it. Do something else. Tell me tell me about that phase, which a lot of people call it the alien phase, which is your 2008 Beijing where you won eight gold medals. You competed in eight races, and you won all of them. There's never been an athlete in the world till now who has ever gone that far and have won so many medals. What was what was that phase like? That alien phase where everything you touch, you would turn it into gold. I mean, yeah, during those games and, like, I guess from, like, 07/2008, like those two years, like I, I truly felt, I felt unbeatable in the pool. I really did. What did you feel like? Unbeatable. Like I literally felt like there wasn't a single soul on the planet that could touch me. That could beat me. I just felt like I was super prepared. You know, everyone says it's like that ten thousand hour mark, right? Like I think 2007 was my ten thousand hour mark. And then it just, it just kept getting better. I mean, 2007, those world championships in Melbourne were, I mean, I might even say performance wise were better than what they were in, in, in Beijing. I mean the times that I did the amount that I was breaking world records by, I mean, they were body lengths behind me. Yeah. I mean, again, it's just, it's the preparation that I had done years prior that we're showing. That's all it was. It's right. Like, you know, if you go out and buy a piece of property and you want to build a house, you can't snap the fingers. Right. You just got to put it up one brick at a time. And that's what I did one day at a time leading up to that point. You know 2004 was obviously a learning process for me. Yeah it was a great experience winning six gold medals. But I think it truly just prepared me for what was coming in 2008 to make sure that I was overly prepared, obsessively prepared for every small detail, because I knew how hard it was going to be to win seven, let alone eight. What was different about that phase? I mean, coming off of 2004, obviously, you know, it was my first gold medal. Right. So, you know, eighteen, nineteen years of dreaming of winning a gold medal and it happens. You win a couple of them. You get off of that Olympic games and then literally every headline is Michael Phelps fails because he doesn't win seven gold medals. And I'm like, what are you talking about? Like, this is a joke. Honestly, though, like, you know, to just have a chance to win one was incredible, but, you know, winning six in an Olympics and then winning eight in the next Olympics. Yeah, I was I was just prepared. You know, like, I mean, even even going back to like the the the quote that Ian Thorpe said going into 2008, He said no one will ever win eight gold medals in Olympic Games. Like that for me is motivation. Right? Like everything I did during that time, you know, truly was about trying to be as perfect as I could. Perfect was going eight eight for eight. But again, like I was competing against somebody who is pretty much fresh every single time. Right. Like people go to the Olympics and they might swim one or two races. Exactly. Right. And I'm swimming a total of 17 races, 18 races in eight days. Yeah. That was like insane. Right? That that's a training. Fascinating. Like it's a full training week. Like you during that week with all of the warmups, warm downs. So that's, that's 2,000, 2,000 meters for warmup. 2,500 meters for warmup 2,000 meters for warm down is doing it twice a day. Plus all the racing. I mean, I'm swimming. I was swimming like 60,000 meters during a competition week. There are people that don't even train 60,000, 65,000 yards or meters a week. Period. So, again, like everything I did from 2,000 to the first step I got with Bob from him destroying my strokes and recreating them into what they were throughout my whole entire career got me to that point. So you started competing on tenth August and then 10/11/1230. There was only, like, one day. I think fifteenth August was off. I had the morning off. Yeah. I had a morning or an afternoon because the finals were in the morning for that Olympics. We're typically there in the afternoon or nighttime. I had one I typically had one session off every every, every major major competition. And and by that point, I needed it. Yeah. I was so tired by the end of those meets, man. You slept did you sleep the whole day, like, on fifteenth when you got an off between those events? No. Like, during an off day, I would wake up normal time. I would I would stay on that schedule, that routine. I would wake up, and I would have, like, a morning like, a splash. And I literally would do 800 to a thousand, like, not much. I was supposed to do more, but I never did. And I would just go and just kind of feel just feel how I was feeling, see if I needed to get a little massage or whatever. I needed a stretch or something before the finals. Go have lunch. Watch a movie. Play some games. I don't know. Like, we were always playing spades or risk hearts, some kind of game to kill time. But, yeah, I mean, it was it was a pretty normal day. I wouldn't really I wouldn't think about much. And by the time the afternoon came, we we always have a team meeting before we would go over to the final session. And, you know, from the team meeting, it was headphones go on. No one talks to me or I don't talk to anybody. They might talk to me, but I I ignore absolutely every noise. Get to the pool about two hours before my race. Stretch for about half hour, dive in the warm up pool ninety minutes before my race, and then do my warm up, get out, dry off, put warm clothes on thirty minutes before my race, get my racing suit on, jump back in the pool for three to 500. Just kind of stroke play and kind of feel my body and make sure everything's going, get out, walk up for the race fifteen, twenty minutes beforehand and then bang. You get either. I mean, my races were anywhere from forty seven seconds to four minutes and three seconds. That's it. Did you ever feel like taking off in that alien phase? Taking off? Yeah. Like an off day of training or maybe just didn't feel like like today is not the day. I'm sure there must have been at least one day where you must be. I mean, yeah. But I think the goals that I had were were too big. They were big enough where I couldn't take a day off. I couldn't. What did you tell yourself on the day when you were feeling sick and you don't want to get out of bed? I mean, for me, like when I when I would get out of bed, the first things I see are my goal sheets. Like literally first thing I wake up, they're on my desk, they're on my bedside table. Because I you know, for me, I want to know why I'm waking up. What is the purpose of that day? Yeah, I might feel like shit. But if I can get 10%, if I can get 20%, if I can get 50% out of that day. And isn't that better than getting zero? Yeah. You know, like as long as you're not taking a step backwards. Because if you are trying to flip that car around and go a different direction, right? Try something different, because taking steps back just it crushes you. Absolutely crushes you. So what does a goal sheet of an of a world champion looks like? I mean, for me, it was they were, all of my times were broken down into fifties. Right. So like, if I'm swimming a 100, it's broken down the first 50 and the second 50, and then it has my total time. They're down to the hundredth of a second. Every day you would have this. Well, I just see like I see. So I would have short term goals and long term goals. Long term goals are what times do I want to swim at the Olympic Games or World Championships? And then the short term goals are what times do I need to hit this season in order to give me a chance at the end of the season to rip one fifty four and the 200 I am or one fifty five and the 200 I am back there. And then, yeah, it's just, I mean, and then I basically, I, I wrote, I would write down basically a hundred, two hundred free. He would always make me do the mile at least once a year. I fucking hated the mile. A hundred, two hundred back, a hundred, two hundred fly, 200, 400. I'm because I had some, all of those races throughout the year. And I had sometimes from a breaststroke race too. But yeah, I mean, like, I think for me, you know, for the 400 I'm I knew that I had to, I knew that the, like my strokes had to be at a certain level in order to do the times that I needed to do in the 400 I am Right. To be able to add those times together to make the right splits. And it all came when I was doing it. It all came from what I was doing every single day. Right. Like if I'm going in, like if I'm going in for a practice, my coach would like Bob would show me the practice and be like, these are, this is what we're doing today. We're doing ten, four hundred bat or ten, two hundred back short course. And the last one, I want you to try to go one forty. I'm like, all right, cool. Let's go on 40. And I would start and just descend my way down to that time. And he would give me goals every single day of what to hit in practice, because those goals then were hand in hand with what I was trying to do. Long term. Right. And if I did that every single day and I did. Whether it was freestyle, backstroke, breaststroke butterfly, I am, it didn't matter. I was doing those times back to back to back to back to back to back to back every single week. Why? Because nobody else was. What's the definite, what's the definition of insanity? Doing the same thing over and over again and expecting different results. I was doing different things over and over again, expecting different results. I knew I was going to get them because again, there wasn't another person on the planet that was more prepared for me in those last, in those two decades of my, of my career on this planet. There just wasn't. That's why I was able to have the success that I did. Was it all about competing yourself, the old version of you, or was it about competing with other people who would come as your competition in the Olympics game? I was competing competing your about against yourself or others? No. I was competing against a clock. That's it. Against a clock. That's how that's how my time or that's how my sport was defined by a time. How fast can you go? And again, like I was saying, if the times that I dreamt of and I believe that I could go were faster than the world record or faster than what other people believed. If I did those times, guess what would happen? I'm going to win. Yeah. Right. So for me, it became a numbers game. But it said that you knew your competition better than they knew themselves. For sure. Why would you say that you would study on them? I mean, I knew how they would swim their races. It's easy, right? Like, I feel like Like, would you study your competitors the way they would do style? What would you study about them? Well, I mean, like, I always, I learn things from them. Right? Like I would go back and, you know, if you talk about Ian Thorpe, like I would learn from his freestyle and how he swam and his kick and his underwaters and, you know, just how his body moved in the water. You know, I took a lot of core exercises from different countries that I would see on the pool deck. Just because, like, if they're doing it, then I can do it and I can beef it up. Like, I can alter the exercise and change it and make a hybrid. But like Lochte, like, I mean, I swam against Lochte for fifteen years, ten or fifteen years. Right. So, you know, I felt like I knew him almost better than he knew himself just because of the history that we had. And of course, yeah, like I watch a lot of tapes. I, I, I mean, I, I don't, you know, I don't have any connection to the sport anymore now. You know, there are a couple international people that I talked to, a couple of international athletes that I talked to, but I have zero connection with anything to do with the sport of swimming anymore. But, yeah, it was it was just, I don't know. Studying them. Yeah. You just, I mean, because it's like you could, you yourself can only do so much. Right? So it's like if if you can't learn from others or others that have come before you, then You're just never going to grow. And again, like it was always back to that goal of wanting to change the sport and take the sport to a different level. And we're talking about Ian Thorpe. He also said it very highly unlikely that you will win eight goals. There were no, you taped that quote on your locker shoe. Why would you do that? It was in the back of my locker and in Michigan in 2008. Because it's kinda like the same story back to my teacher, Right? Like my teacher telling me I'd never amount to anything and proving her wrong. And if a fellow competitor and a friend of mine is telling, excuse me, if a friend of mine and a competitor of mine is telling reporters that it's it's not possible to win equal medals, guess what? I'll have the last laugh. And I it's, you know, like Thorpey is a great friend of mine, always has been. But even like after after that, and then after twenty sixteen in Rio, because he said no one over the age of 30 will win an Olympic gold medal. He he sent me a text, right after, and I was giving him shit for it. And he was like, dude, he's like, I know how your mind works. I was just giving you a little extra motivation. But no, I, you know, I always like proving people wrong, especially if they doubt something that I think is possible. You know, I think one thing, my coach took out of my vocabulary was the word can't. Because if you say you can't do something, you can't. Your mind has already made it up for you. Like you, you made that choice, right? Don't do it. Don't think about it anymore. Don't think about whatever that was. Move on from it because it's going to be exponentially harder since you told yourself you can't. Right. So it's such a negative word. So we removed it from my, my vocabulary. And, and, you know, for me, I, I, I just believe that whatever I did. Whatever I dreamt of, excuse me, let me take a step back. Whatever I dreamt of was possible based off of the actions that I did. Right. It's back to that quote, actions speak louder than words. Right. What you do every single day, how you show up when you show up, it matters. And it's gonna matter at the most important time. Right. So, yeah, that's it. Would you ever imagine yourself losing a race? Would you ever visualize it? Yeah. Why not? What if I lost? Yeah, because I never want it to happen. So of course. Yeah. To do that. Yeah. And what if I get second by a hundredth of a second instead of winning by a hundredth of a second? Yeah, I'd be fucking pissed. But the only way I can change that is controlling what I do every day. So maybe I have to prepare better. Right. And was there any. Well, I think I think I think to I think to better answer that, like. I remember my losses more than I remember my victories. Because the feeling of defeat, I never wanted to have again. Right. Cause it feels like shit when you lose. It feels like shit when you fail. It's not, it doesn't feel fun. Right. So for me, I looked at it as if I failed. It was my fault because I didn't prepare. I didn't take the time to focus on the small details that are going to help me down the road. So those defeats motivate me even more to never have that happen again. What's about losing that you hate so much? I just don't like the feeling of somebody being better than me. No, honestly, I think that's what it is. Like, I just, I like you. I think it's, it's like you ask the greats or the goats of all sports or probably all walks of life. And, and I think they'll say they hate losing more than they enjoy winning. It's just that just the feeling of defeat. Like I just, I don't like it. It's just something I don't enjoy. And if there is something in my control and my power to make sure that I have a chance at least to succeed, then that's what I'm gonna do. And if I fail and I fail because that person is more prepared than me, then so be it. But I'm not gonna show up unprepared. Right? Like, it's just, it's not who I am. Did you use any psychological warfare sort of tactic against your competitors, which you secretly would use and not share it with anyone? No. I mean, I would say some people probably think me doing my back slap and clearing my throat on the block was a form of trying to get in their head intimidation that wasn't. You know, the clearing of the throat. I don't know when that came in. I feel like it was maybe post 2008. But my arm slaps, I've been doing those since I was eight years old. Seven years old. I've done that my whole life. You know, so it's just a part of what I needed to do in order to get as prepared as I can be. And if what I'm doing is messing up them, it's not my problem. It's not my fault. Right? Like I'm taking care of me. I'm taking care of me and I'm focusing on what I need in that moment. I don't give a shit about my competitors in that moment. I could care. Why, why would I care about them? Right. Like I'm trying to beat them. I don't care what they're doing. I don't care anything about them. When I'm on the pool deck, it is a full blown war. I wanna absolutely destroy somebody. Was there anyone you secretly feared as a competitor? Feared? Feared? Yeah. No. I beat everybody. Even your head, you would not be like, maybe this new guy or somebody is better than me or someone's gonna beat me. If I was prepared, why would it matter? You didn't care. I didn't care. I didn't care who you were. If I smelled blood in the water, I'm gonna destroy you. I was like a shark. Yeah. Tell me the first time you won the gold medal at the Olympics. How did you feel? Oh, for first time ever in 2004. Because that's what you have. That's what you wanted, right? Yeah. Yeah. I mean, I mean, going back to 2004, April I'm I was in the center of the pool on 4082408.26, maybe. Somewhere in there. And I remember turning back around and seeing that I had broken the world record, won the gold medal, first gold medal. We were an outdoor pool, in Athens, Greece where the Olympics has started. I remember looking up and just looking for my mom, my mom, my sisters. I caught them and then I was on the award study or the award podium here in the national anthem play. We're actually The US went one, two in that race. Eric vent got second from lane one or eight. I forget which one it was. And he came jumping across the lane line and we hugged and celebrated. It was fucking awesome. Like, like here is one of my favorite humans in the planet. I love training with him. And then once we got our medals, that was day one of the meet. I had the 200 free, I think the next day or a relay the next day or something. And I remember sharing it with my mom through a chain link fence. I passed it through, through the fence and, and we just talked about it and we shared the moment for, I think it was a total of like thirty seconds. And I was like, mom, I did it. And that was it. And we. From that point, I heard my coach whistle, Bob whistled. He had a couple of different whistles that meant a couple of different things. And he whistled like the one trying to get my attention and I turned around and he just pointed at the warm down pool and he was like, let's go. You gotta warm down. So I hadn't warmed down from the race yet. So I needed to clear my lactic acid to get ready for the next day and my next race. So I think that was the first time for me where I learned that, I couldn't get caught up in that one moment. Even though it was special, right? Like, yeah, I just won my first gold medal. But I had five or six other races that I had to get ready for. So that gold medal is like, all right, finished. What's next. Onto the next race. You know, like it's crazy. Like I, throughout my career, I don't know, like in the actual moment. With a gold medal around my neck, like I, you know, I don't think I really enjoyed it or like lived it as much as I did in 2016, because I knew it was my last one, period. Like I knew it wasn't coming back and, you know, that's why I kind of let the tears started coming out during the national anthem when I was in the podium, just because of, you know, going back and thinking through every little moment throughout my career. But, you know, in 2004 and 02/2012, I couldn't. Use those emotions up in that way because I had so much other stuff going on that week. So it really was trying to manage those physical and emotional that are that physical and emotional energy throughout, you know, an eight to ten day program. So yeah, you really couldn't I couldn't excuse me, enjoy those moments as probably as much as. Probably people would have thought. But I think for me, after retiring, I've been able to kind of go back and, put myself back in those spots. And, it's been really cool, just being able to look at each medal and, you know, tell you exactly what was going on in my head or, you know, who I was swimming against who I touched out this, that or the other. Just trying to break it all down. Right. Because I think that at times there's, there's still that, like that thought you're like, was that a dream or did that really happen? Right. So you still got to pinch yourself every now and then. But winning the gold medal, getting it in your hand, you're standing at the podium and you're not thinking about that feeling of winning. You're just thinking about, okay, tomorrow next race. Yep. I can't. I could not do it. I couldn't. Because I couldn't I had to I had to make sure that like in that moment, I had to make sure that I was getting the right recovery, right? Like if I was finished for the night and I had worn down already, then I'm like, all right, am I getting back on the massage table and then right into the cold tub to then go back and eat? Am I eating first? What am I doing? Is there food here? Do I have to eat a power bar or something like that now or carnation and some breakfast just to give me some energy before I get back to the village? Yeah, it was, it was one thing in front of another. I mean, like even in 2012, right. Like 2012, I swam the 400 I am, which fuck, I still probably shouldn't have swam it. But whatever, it was a learning experience. And I did it, where I got fourth, I got fourth and missed the podium. And that was the very, very first day of the Olympics. Right. So at that point, it's like, all right, well, that didn't go as planned. So now how do you redirect yourself and your energy to make sure that doesn't affect the rest of the meat? So I was like, I had literally I just threw it out. Just forgot about it. Next day I came back and had an unbelievable split on the relay, and then kind of built momentum back from there. But yeah, it's, it's, it's, you know, really living in the moment and I think it's, you know, I still haven't mastered it. But, you know, I think throughout my career, it was something that I was really good at. I think there's a book that I have probably read a dozen times the power of now Eckhart Tolle. I like it's just, it's incredible. Like there's something really to living in the moment. And I think it's something we can all learn from. Like, I mean, you guys have heard me talk about having four kids. And those four kids do it perfectly. They live in the moment, every single waking moment of their life right now. And I, you know, I think it's that there's just a lot of power to that. It's something that I try to do at every moment in my life. It is hard, this complicated world that we live in. But, I think there's, if that's one thing that you can try to do, it's living in the now. I think it truly allows you to be the best version of you. Good. What about the time when you won all eight gold medals after that? There was nothing to look forward to at least during that time. Did you not enjoy that as well? There wasn't, there was nothing to look forward to because at that point I had just done something that no one else had ever done that I had literally set my life To do to try to do so. Did you enjoy that feeling a lot? Yeah, it was awesome. But I was just like, all right, cool. Like, I just need space from the sport. And that's when I kind of like stiff arm the sport a little bit and just wanted to be me. I wanted to be a kid. I learned a lot about myself that way to put myself in a couple of different situations throughout my life. But, yeah, it was. I mean, but but I think like if I can understand a little bit of what you're asking, like for me, like the sacrifices that I gave up throughout my career allowed me to have the opportunity that I had in the swimming pool. And I don't regret giving those things up, you know, like for me throughout my career, it, it, yeah. Would it have been cool to go and like party with your friends or go on a road trip for the weekend? Yeah, sure. But isn't it really cool winning 23 Olympic gold medals too? You know, so like for me, like it was almost like I have this opportunity to do something really special and, I'm gonna have that same opportunity to do whatever they're doing right now in fifteen years. Right. So it's just like kinda lock in and just go. You know what's funny? Because you just said 23 gold medals. I was listening to one of the, somebody was explaining an interview which you gave, and the interviewer asked you that you have won twenty eight twenty eight Olympic medals in your life. No. Yeah. 23 of them. And you said, no. Just 23. That counts. Yeah. I don't even know how many how many silver and and bronze I have. I it's it's two and three. Doesn't count in your life? I mean, it's it's like I said, it's like, yeah. I don't I don't like to lose. So, Silver is losing? We're a second. Right? You got second place. We lost third place. You lost. Yeah. It's losing. I don't talk about the other five. I went 28 for 30. Here's a better way of saying it. I medaled in 28 out of 30 of my races at the Olympic games. 23 are only the ones that we need to talk about. Because again, like, I I was unprepared in the other ones. Somebody else is more prepared than me. So in 2012, when the bad phase started and you won four gold medals in the Olympics and you were sad about it. Yeah. It sucked. I just won. But at the, but like that point, like, I think I was sad because I just wanted to be done with the sport. You know, like I think at that point I was just over it. I wanted, I wanted space. I wanted to be a kid. I wanted to just grow up a little bit and not just literally all be about swimming. And like, I think for me, I think that's what, that's when I really kind of stiff arm the sport. So you will, because all I had done was swim, swim, swim, swim, swim. And I think at that point I was like, what else do I need to do? There's nothing else that I need to accomplish. And I just kind of rebelled a little bit and did my own thing and then, you know, realized that I still wanted it and came back in '16, you know, but like, yeah, in 2012, you know, the 200 fly, if I if I don't have a shitty first, second, third turn or hit the finish with any amount of momentum, I win the race. If I win that race, I probably don't come back in '16. Right. So it's like for me, like 2012 was, I think that that Olympics was worse than the two thousand Olympics. And I came back with six medals. I hated swimming then. I hated it. I don't want to do it. I did it because I had to, I was contractually obligated. I had to, if I didn't compete, I lost all my sponsors. So I had to swim. I did the best I could with not doing much work. I mean, I literally trained. I trained less than two years of that four years from 2008 to 2012. And you still ended up with four goals. I don't think I was 100% in Beijing. Yeah, but I want to talk about that. I want to talk about that. Right. It's I broke my wrist six months before the Olympic Games. You know it. Before the Beijing. I spent three days out of the water and had surgery twenty four to thirty six hours afterwards. Right there. There's a scar still. And there's still a pin in there. I have a titanium pin in there. Slipped on a piece of you. You give what you had. I slipped on a piece of ice. My wrist snapped back. And there was a basically looked like a golf ball coming out of my wrist. And I just popped it. It popped it back in, held it. Had surgery the next day. Yeah. But no, I like I truly don't think I was before the Olympics. Six months before trials. Six months before Olympic trials. And you still ended up winning eight. All eight. But I was probably only at w here's what I don't understand. 95%, 90%. Okay. Explain me this right. 2004, six medals, 2008, eight medals, Gold. 2012, four gold medals. And 2016 again. But you say that only 2016 where you've given 100%. Yeah. Before that, London was not 100. London definitely wasn't. Beijing wasn't 100%. And it was 400. Four was. But like, oh, wait. Like, yeah, I don't think I was I was fully at 100%. No, I could. That's what I'm saying. Like you asked earlier, like the 200 butterfly. Yeah, I was pissed even though I broke the world record and won the gold medal because I knew I could have gone faster. Like, that's what I'm saying. Like, I, I truly coming off of 2007, that was like arguably probably better than 2008, even though I only won seven. Because we, we, I could have, I should have won eight, but our morning relay got d q'd. So disqualified. Yeah. 2007 was unbelievable. Like that best year of my career, and then broke my broke my wrist six months before trials. Yeah, that that recovery was was brutal. But we did whatever we could. And and, yeah, it ended up working out. But, yeah, it could have it could have been better. And I think being better, I say from a times spur, like a times perspective, a times standard, I think the times that I did there. Would have been faster had I not broken my wrist, but that was my fault. So whatever. What was going on in your head in 2016? Because I heard there was a competitor who said Michael Phelps should shut up. And then he, you were sitting in the, in the, you said shut up. I don't remember hearing that, but like somewhere there was, like, he said he, there was a news about it, right? And then he was shadow boxing, shadow boxing in front of you and you gave him this fell face look. Yeah. It's like really iconic. I mean, like, for me back then, it it was kinda crazy. Like, a guy I was on a mission. I didn't care really what anybody said, what anybody did. If anybody got in my way, I was I was gonna push you out. Like, I was just on an absolute tear. I was feeling the best I'd felt in years. And I remember seeing Chad, shot a Vox And I was just like, what are you doing? Like, I don't ever remember seeing him do that once, prior to that point. And it almost looked like it was on purpose. Like, it looked like it was on purpose right in front of me. And honestly for me, it just pissed me off. It pissed me off more than anything else. And I knew there were going to be two cameras, one in each corner. And I looked at both of them and I was like, oh shit. Cause I saw the red lights. So if you see the red light on a camera on the bottom, you know, that thing's rolling. So I was like, man, they're going to have a field day with the reaction and the facial expressions that I had, because I don't really hide my emotions. Well, right. Like if I'm pissed off, off, you're going to see it. If I'm happy, you're going to see it. Like, it's just how I am. And, Yeah, I think the, the, the best photo for me coming from those games or one of the best photos was him looking like this During the race as I'm a half a body length ahead of him. And I ended up winning the gold medal. Right. So I think that's a lesson within itself, right? Focus on you and what you're trying to do, not what others are doing. And don't try to intimidate other people because it's only going to waste your time and your energy. Yeah, that's it. Right. Focus on what you gotta do. Period. Cut and dry. I was watching that video where in the twenty sixteen Rio you race and just like the moment you touch the wall, you just come up and you do this. Oh, yeah. You knew like I knew. You knew that you won. Yeah. I mean, you zero one second, which made you win. Like just it was, it was a close one. That 200 fly had it been two zero one meters. I probably would've lost the race, but, Yeah, I just, you just know in those moments, But zero point zero one second. How did you know that you won it? Like, is it just 100? It was pure instinct to go that extra half a stroke. I mean, yeah. Like in, in 2008, when I did take that half stroke, yeah, you had to, because it was all situational. Like, you know, for me in that moment, like I started judging the wall 10 to 15 meters before the end of the race before, before I get to the wall. So, unfortunately I didn't judge it. I didn't judge it very well there. But I hit it at the right spot. Right. So I was always taught to hit it with force. You got to hit it with force. Because if you kind of baby it, it doesn't stop until you really hit it. So, the half stroke that I took won me the race. And the glide stroke that Michael Kovac took lost in the race. If you look at the video, he's going like this. He's finishing like this. His body, his neck and his hands are completely out of body position. So, yeah, Hundreds of a second. So you were so focused on yourself. You didn't care about anyone else. But what in your body knew that you won? Because until you look at the board or anything Yeah. I mean, like, I Like, you just came out of the water. No. I do. I mean, the very first thing that I do when I finish is snap, turn, and look at the board. Okay. I know where my lane is. I know where my name where my name is. And if there's a if I see this, that's it. Like, what I mean? Like, most of, like, there are some races where I'll win by a body length or two body lengths and you don't even have to look at the scoreboard, but like some of the races, like, I mean, I think if you add, it's like six of my races together, eight of my races, not as probably six, I think it's six or seven of my races together. The margin of victory, I think, six or seven of my Olympic gold medals, the winning margin is less than half a second. So, yeah, it's preparation. Yeah. It's being in the moment, the right place at the right time. But, I mean, I, I practiced those finishes that I did in every single one of my races. A thousand times, 2,000 times, 5,000 times, 10,000 times. So when I'm in the race, you don't think you just be. That is it. And what goes on in your head when you're on the podium? Nothing. I'm saying the national anthem. That's it. No. Before even the race is stuck. Oh, when I'm on the block? On the block? Nothing. Zero. Not thinking about people. I'm not thinking about start. I'm not thinking of my my breakout, my kicks, my streamline. I do my normal stretch, my legs on the block, my arm slap. That's it. I don't think about anything. There's nothing I can change in that moment. But right before the race, you're not thinking about winning. You're not thinking about beating, not competing. I'm like a dog trying to get out of the cage. Let me out of the cage. Like I'm just not, like, again, I'm the shark in the water. If I smell the smallest ounce of blood, I'm going to destroy you. And I mean, like you can tell people who are nervous being in the ready rooms too. It's obvious. I guess I always have my headset on. I don't want to talk to anybody. I just want to listen to my beats, listen to my, my, like the lyrics or whoever I'm listening to at that moment, just to put me in the boat to put me in the zone. And you would listen to till I collapse. I mean, it was everybody. I mean, Wayne. Let me top three songs you always listen to. Oh, you used to. Man. Before you would get out. It's all Lil Wayne stuff, to be honest. A lot of it was, let's see. Low Wayne was there was, well, till I collapse as Eminem. Low Wayne was, I guess, like a milli. Like, those are big ones back in. Young Jeezy was a big one. I mean, everyone at Eminem's albums, Biggie, there there wasn't really one song that stuck stuck out. It was kind of like a hodgepodge of songs that, We're just going through. I don't know, kind of whatever, whatever put me, put me in the mood. And honestly, I think during each competition week, it would really get narrowed to probably just a handful of songs. And I would just repeat, like, I'd get off the bus, restart the song, walk out to the pool deck, restart the song. And I always try to get it in a certain spot of the song before I took it off. Just to give me one final little little motivation before I dive. Tell me here's the last question because I know we're running out of time. It's if somebody listening to this and want to build the same kind of mindset that you have, the same kind of things that you have done in your work, they wanna do it in their work. Okay. And they could just pick up three specific principles or habits or rituals or mindset from you. What would that be? Let's say we call it the Phelps protocol. That'd be. It's so hard to narrow it into three different things. I mean, I think one of the things that I really live by is dream plan reach, right? Like we all have a dream. It's something that we're trying to accomplish. And if you don't have a plan that goes along with that dream, then you're going to be lost. Right. And then honestly, it's just reaching for it. Look like, was I afraid to drop all of my other sports and just focus on swimming? Of course. But I also was able to learn that it was the best decision for me. Right. Like I found something that I love. I enjoy it and that I was pretty good at, you know, so I think it's really just keeping it as simple as you possibly can. Right. Like what is your goal and figure out the smallest little details that you need to. Get to get there, to reach, to, to just have a chance to get there. Right. I think that's the biggest thing is, is people want a chance to do something, but if you're not doing the things that it takes to give yourself a chance, then all it is is words, right? It's back to the actions, speak louder than words thing. I think it's just what you do holding yourself accountable for things. But again, it's, it's, it's what can you do right now? It's not yesterday. It's not tomorrow. It's right now. It's, it's trying to simplify every little small detail. Like again, like I say this a 100 times, like my career wasn't wasn't rocket science. It was just a lot of small things that were done well over time. And that's it like, don't have an excuse if you didn't want to do it. So you didn't want to do it. Then if you didn't want to do it, then your goals didn't matter. Right. If your goals are something that mattered to you, you'll never have an excuse period. Like for me, like you asked me, yeah, there were days where I wanted to hit snooze and knock out of bed, but those goals were important to me. That's a push me the same thing now. Like how can I give my kids the best chance to succeed in this world? What does that look like? I don't know. I don't have the answers, but I'm trying to figure it out. Right? Like for me, that's all I think about. It's all my wife. And I think about every day is how can we do the, how can we be the best parents to give them the best life to succeed? However they want, whether that's in the pool, whether it's in a classroom, I don't care. Right. I just want them to be the best version of themselves. So it's, what do you do every single day? What are your daily habits and what are your daily routines that prove that you are trying to be successful and you are trying to be great because if your habits aren't aligned with those things, then. You need to look at yourself in the mirror and figure out what you're doing and who you are or your goals need to change. I don't know. I don't know if that answered the question, but it's just like, you know, I always hear people like whether it's a weight loss goal or this, that, or the other, like, oh, I really want to do this. And you're like, well, what have you been doing? Nothing. I've been meaning to do this, or I've been meaning to do this. No, just go do it. Right. Like literally just go out and do it. Like, I didn't want to go into the gym today. My head just wasn't, wasn't great this morning, whatever. But I went in and I got done and I was like, whew, like I feel different. Right? Like you feel different when, when you set your mind to something like I got into the gym this morning, I was like, this is gonna suck. And I was like, I'm gonna put my music on. I'm gonna put McAfee on TV. Stretch. By the time I stretched. I was excited. And I was ready to try to get stronger. Twenty minutes, thirty minutes before that, I didn't even want to come into the gym. Right. So it's just, it's crazy to me that if you try to, or if you force yourself to do something that you don't want to, when it's uncomfortable, how quick your mind and body comes back around and you're not in that shitty mood or depressed mood or unhappy mood. Like for me, like that's, that's why I work out still every day, because if I don't, then I'm not giving myself the best chance physically and mentally, because for me, for twenty five years of my life, I swam damn near every day. Right. So some form of exercise. So that's what I have to do now for me to be the best version of me. That's There's no excuses. I have to get in there for an hour, hour and a half plus, no matter what, no matter how I feel tomorrow, I'm going to be sore as hell from the weights today. But you know what I get through tomorrow, the next day is going to be even better. And then I am going to build muscle and am gonna get stronger. Right. It's that process of it. It's the process of things that I think people don't like or skip or give up after they're a week, two weeks, three weeks into it. Trust it. It takes thirty days to create a habit. It takes thirty days to get rid of a habit for me throughout my career. I would do different habits. So when I'm in the pool, I would learn and create different habits for strokes or repetitions or streamline or kick out. So this, that, and the other. So naturally after a thirty day period, it becomes second nature. You don't have to think about it. It's a part of who you are. Right. So it's, I don't know. I mean, I guess the easiest way to say things is simplify it, right? Like break your goals down in the smallest terms, smallest things, and take a little bite out of each, each part. If you try to conquer everything at once, you're just going to fail and spin and it won't be good. But what now? Doesn't it feel empty because there's nothing to look forward to? What are you looking forward to now? I mean, for me, everything I'm trying to do in the mental health space, you know, suicide, the second leading cause for people ten to thirty four like that, that's frightening. You know, for me as somebody who has thought about suicide multiple times, what got you out of it? What's that? What brought me out of it? Just being able to learn more about who I am and and being Okay. And, and, and understanding that it's okay to share and talk about the things and the feelings that I experienced where in the past, all I would do is compartmentalize and shove them down. But you know, I think over the last ten years I've learned that it's okay. Not to be okay. Right. Like it's okay to have a hard day. But what did I learn from it? How can I try to be better? How can I try to not have it affect the whole entire day? Who can I talk to? Who can I go see? What can I learn more? Right. Like for me, like, I just want to ask questions. And I know there are so many people in the world that are probably suffering from similar things that I do, whether it's depression or anxiety. And for me, I I I want them to get the the the help and care that they need and deserve. You know, for me being able to see a therapist or having the chance to see my first therapist, it saved my life. And who knew that just talking about things would make you happy and make you freer and just be your normal self. So yeah, for me, it's, you know, chapter one of my swimming career. Yeah. It was incredible. And, and, you know, it was something I always dreamt of. But, you know, for me, I think the next chapter of mental health and and, you know, trying to de stigmatize it still, or get people the help and care they need and deserve or trying to learn more about it. I just think it's so unknown, to so many people and, and, you know, the, you know, I guess for me, it's, it's trying to help people become vulnerable because vulnerability is a scary word. Right. But if you're, if you allow yourself to become vulnerable, then you allow yourself to grow and you allow yourself to change and sometimes change isn't always bad. Right. So, yeah, I could talk for hours about it, but like for me, the mental health journey and what I'm trying to do on that, on that front, Yeah, it's, it's, there's no timetable, right? Like it's just going to be a never ending thing and, something I look forward to, you know, for me again, being able to save a life is way bigger than ever winning an Olympic gold medal. You know, I heard the president of this country say something like depression isn't a thing. Get busy working so hard that depression doesn't even affect you. And in your case, you were working so hard and still hit you. Do you, do you buy what he was saying? You know, I, I, depression is something. It is a thing because I Do you think it won't affect people if they're like just busy working day in and day out? I, I think you, you know, for me, I can speak from my personal experience. You know, when I did that, I just ended up stacking a bunch of stuff on top of each other and compartmentalize it inside of me. And then I've just erupt like I'm a, like a volcano. So, for me, like when I go through depression, it feels like the room is shrinking. On top of me. And I do feel all alone. So I, you know, and it doesn't matter if I go work out or if I go and do my everyday errands, I still feel like shit. And I still feel really dark and the thoughts that I have aren't good. But I think for me, it's when I do have those moments, I'm lucky that I have the tools that I have to help me get out of them. And that is whether it's going to talk to my therapist, whether it's calling my therapist, whether it's calling my men's group that I'm a part of, whether it's calling a friend, whether it's talking to my wife, whether it's journaling, whatever it is, there are things that I have, whether it's getting in a cold tub, whether it's sitting in the infrared sauna, there are so many different things for me as a self care checklist that if I'm not doing those every day, that I'm not being the best me. I guess I agree to disagree with this comment then, because I think if you have your routines and you stick with your routines, then yeah, you're going to be the best version of you and you'll learn more about yourself. But if you do compartmentalize and shove the things down, they're only going to come back stronger and harder. So yeah, I mean, I, I wouldn't ignore depression spells. I wouldn't ignore anxiety. You know, those two are the things that I can talk about because I struggle with them. You know, I get, I get anxiety when I have to go and speak in front of 2,000 people. Right. Like, but it's, it's a part of me like that. So you'll see me, like, I'll spin my ring or I have like, I have, like crystals that I'll take and I'll just kind of ground myself. They're just things that I've learned that, that worked for me. Yeah. And I mean, my depression and anxiety are never just going to leave me. I can't snap my fingers and have them disappear at will. I can't. It's not possible. Right? They're a part of who I am. I don't want to say I'm thankful for it, but, they challenged me. They challenged me to learn more about me and how I work and I guess I'm thankful for it. It sucks sometimes. And it's really hard going through, the rollercoasters of emotions that I go through. But again, that's what makes me who I am. And, you know, I, I enjoy looking at myself in the mirror, this white beer and this man bun. You know, I don't see what I used to see. And I used to see somebody with a pair of goggles and a swim cap on not somebody with feelings and emotions. So yeah, the journey that I'm on now is, is a pretty cool and it's a pretty fun one. You get some bumps along the way, but it's part of life. Thank you so much. For sure. I'm thankful for this conversation. For sure. Thank you. Thank you for coming here. Thank you for spending time. Thank you for sure. Taking us through your mindset. For sure. It was really no no to to to talk to someone like you. You know, in the middle of the conversation, you said somewhere, every time you go ask the goat of anything, they're gonna say this, this, this. And in my head, I'm like, well, I'm asking the goat. But it's true. Like, honestly, like I've gotten to know a bunch of them and like a bunch of the real goats and, and like legendary athletes and, you know, our mindset and how we go about our everyday routine or schedule or job is pretty similar. It's, you know, it's again, that's why I always say it's not rocket science. It's really not, it's a mindset and it's making a choice. Right. If you had to give a name to your mindset, what would it be? I have no idea. I'm bad at that. I think, no, I mean, I don't know. It's just, you know, it's I I but, you know, like when you say something like that, that I I don't know if I can take credit for all of my stuff. Right. Because, you know, what we were talking about, knowing your competitors, it's, I've been able to take borrow what I've learned, you know, from whether it's other athletes or mentors, or just people that I've come in contact with, and I've been able to put it into my terms in my way and understand it that way. Right. So I think it's, you know, I used to hate talking to people. I used to hate talking in general. But I enjoy having like really fun conversations with people. And, and, you know, for me, I'm still looking for, you know, Different ways that I can change my routine to better myself. Right. From, from any conversation that I have. Right. Whether it's a retired basketball player, football player, baseball player, politician, it doesn't matter. Right. Like, like, like, for me, I'm just always, I'm always trying to learn. I'm always trying to be better. Right? So, you know, I in that process, yeah, I'm going to be my authentic self. But yeah, whatever we learn, I think from everybody and you know, the people listening here, like, you know, I wouldn't say do it exactly my way. But, you know, the things that that we talked about today, if there's something that fits in a spot in your life or fits in your mindset or fits here, like I do it because right. Like, that's what we're all here to do. We're here to help each other. Right. And try to help each other be great. Right. Like, I couldn't have done this by myself. Yeah. Like I swam my ass off in the pool for twenty years, but like, it wasn't all me. Right. So I think the more that we can work together, the more that we can accomplish. Thank you. Thank you so much. How are you? Good. I just got done, a workout. So sorry I'm late. It's alright. It's alright. I just got out of a workout and now we're good to go. All good? Is you Oops. It's alright. It's alright. I don't know. It's it's very American thing to get ice with water. In India, they they don't give you water with ice. Even though we are much hotter country than you are. Thank you so much for watching this podcast till the end. Please let us know in the comments what all did we do right so that we can improve and keep doing that better and what all did we do wrong so that we never repeat it and at the same time please give us suggestions of who's the next guest that you want to see on the podcast and don't forget to share this episode with at least one person who will get some insights because one conversation is enough to give people enough ideas to change their lives. I'll see you next time until then keep figuring out and also don't forget to subscribe the channel.
