I am thrilled to have on the show with us, Srimati Smriti Irani. Twenty five years ago, I was called a part time politician and a full time actor. My father said, I wanna live the rest of my life as somebody's wife. Seventeen years as your daughter. I said, when do I get to live for myself? First job was on streets of Delhi in a place called Janpath for $200 a day. Taking a loan from my dad. Please I'll give you one year and if you can't pay me back, marry whoever I tell you to marry. Adi, I would love to be a fly on the wall in your home. What is it like to be back as Tulasi? Everywhere I would go they would say you're crappy actor. Real actor was getting paid more than me. Tulsi today could say something to Tulsi twenty five years ago. Get a better paycheck. In 2004, fought my first election. I was 27. There's no education, no academic adventure. You understand hardcore politics. Have you ever felt that you had to to choose between being liked or respected? Very angry editor shouting on my phone. What is wrong with you? Come out and you know. Politicians supposed to be good diplomats. In this modern world, you have to be your own CEO, CFO, and intern. The push and tracker app. And that was me. Exactly. Eight million children who are severely, acutely malnourished. Built it in one month. I was there in the opposition when the Nirbhaya case happened. As somebody from the BJP is two men at the helm. Made sure that the reservation happens for them. Nobody knows this. Let me break the biggest myth that's never happened in the history of our country. Indian women were among the first in the world to exercise the right to vote, well before many Western democracies actually granted full suffrage to women. And in India, we have had women, hold some of the highest constitutional offices, prime minister, president, governors, chief ministers, something even the large democracies in the West have not seen as yet. And yet at the same time, when we look at true representation, the numbers remain very limited. In our parliament, take both Rajya Sabha and Lok Sabha, women's representation hovers around 14%. And when you look at the state assemblies, it's even less, under 10%. And I personally think that we have very few positive role models. And today, we're very fortunate to have one of those role models with us. Hello and welcome to All About Her, a space where we have honest and meaningful conversations about women's health, wellness, happiness, and self care. And today, we will be discussing women in public service. We are very, very fortunate to have one of those role models with us. And normally, as you know, on the show, we have the format of a phenomenal woman and an expert who gives us valuable insights. Today, I'm excited to tell you that we have our phenomenal woman and expert rolled into one, and I am thrilled to have on the show with us Srimati Smriti Irani. Thank you so much. Pleasure. I'm so happy that you're here and I'm so excited to have this conversation with you. And I have a bunch of questions, which I'm sure you've been asking. Fire away. I will fire away. In the interest of time, my first one is, of course, that you are now back to acting. And you've called yourself a full time politician. Part time actor. Part time actor. So what's it like in your part time job? It's it's fascinating how life comes full circle because twenty five years ago I was called a part time politician and a full time actor. And I think that when my political and media journey began, I began my media journey in the year nineteen ninety five, ninety six. Now at that time, I was what? Barely out of high school. And it was not a very very nice place for women to be in. My father specifically asked me are you a dud head and I said why? So only people who do not have enough capacity to be academically inclined or to do something better in a professional or private sector would want to opt for media. He said why have all the people, would you who's been surrounded with books want to do anything in media? And within media it was journalism. I actually started, from Delhi with just the intention of wanting to live my own space and my own life. I was very, I think blunt with my family when I told them. I said, particularly my father. I said, I'm gonna live the rest of my life as somebody's wife. I have lived a good part of my seventeen years as your daughter. I said, when do I get to live for myself? It sounds very Ash Chopra ish, as though, you know, there's a detailed day scene and, you know, chhor dije pitaji. But this is one of the, I think hard facts about life. I decided that instead of just beating around the bush, the idea was to have a straight up conversation. I think the tone with which I had that conversation, indicated to my parents that this is the respect I show them to hear their point of view, but this is something that I've already decided for myself. In Delhi, the atmosphere was such that everybody knew everybody. And if you wanted to become somebody, you had your parents give you a leg up. Yes. I come from a very very modest in fact financially challenged background. And I knew that for me to become something or somebody, it was essential that I do it on my own. There were people around me who thought it was quite foolish because it is not easy to begin from scratch. Were those family members or? I'm the first girl in the family actually to go out and work. And my father in fact was flabbergasted. He said you were absolutely alright till now. He I have two other sisters. He says what am I to make of them because suddenly you're this rebel who wants to you know lead a professional life because before that I was this introvert who would just read books all day and never speak to anybody. I was not the regular girl who would hang out with other girls or have guru birthday parties or even paint my nails for that matter. The first time I put my lipstick on was when I was a Miss India finalist. Yes. So my father said why on earth would suddenly this change happen in this girl? But this is something that I contemplated over a period of time. And I think my grandfather, my Nana's death had a huge contribution to that thought process. I had seen him, live through a phase where he was adamant that Smriti will make something of herself. And everybody else in the family thought that, you know, he's being diffident for no reason. He said he was very very clear that this is not a girl who you marry off to somebody. Allow her to study, allow her to you know carve out her place for herself. There was talk about me sitting for UPSC And my father said, he said, don't have the temperament to take orders from anybody. And he said that it's not going to be fruitful because my mother's side of the family did have certain serving officers in various verticals. My grandfather had served in the Navy. My dada, who died before I was born, had served in the Indian Army. And he says, you do not have the temperament to take orders. And, that's why I didn't set, set foot into any academy to study for the UPSC exam. I had a fire in my belly when I saw journalists on television. I said, I need to do this. I landed up at a television, network's office, seventeen or eighteen, and and they actually shooed me away. HR said, what's wrong with you? I mean you're a kid. And I said no no I'm I need to do something. The idea that drove me Yeah. Was to do something where my parents had the least bit of interference. Had absolutely no knowledge of nobody. And media was that space where they knew nobody. So it became a very natural choice for me. And was there somebody that you took as an influence? Is that okay this is my role model? No. No. I never had one of those fancies. I wanted to first work. So I my first job was on the streets of Delhi in a place called Janpath where I was selling cosmetics for $200 a day. That's again around the age of sixteen and a half seventeen. And, from that I wanted to basically test my capacity. How hungry am I? Yeah. For either a job or what is my ambition. I was in that space at that time. And I think I predominantly grew up with my grandfather. So there was this whole patch of him dying and me left whittling my thumbs wondering who's How old were you when you passed away? I was like 13. So those three years were very difficult for me because suddenly you that whole center of support goes And as every teenager goes through that whole churn, you feel that, you know, there has to be somebody who validates this crazy idea you have that I can be independent. And the one person who could validate that had passed away. And, I think after that selling cosmetics, there was this whole moment because there's a lady who bought something from me and she walked away and she came back. She said, do you know why I bought this from you? I like no idea but thank you so much. She said no no no you know how to speak. You speak well. So for me it was like oh maybe I can get into marketing and sales. So I went I spoke to my father who's running a courier company and I said, can I work with you? So just to toughen me up and just I think he basically wanted to be wean me off the ambition. Uh-huh. He said, fine. You have to go to Naidili Railway Station and go to Naidili Basaddha and go to Goldarkana and go to Palam Airport and with, you know, other men on the job. I was one of the first three women in the entire industry, what, thirty three, thirty two years ago. And he says, you need to do this. And I think he kept waiting for me to say I give up. I just didn't. And I would do those rounds. I would write manifests. I would take calls from, you know, people who were hunting down where the package is. Till one day I said, which is the toughest station. Now, thirty two years ago, Mumbai, Bombay then, was a tough nut to crack because you had a union here. Yeah. And New Bombay was an area which nobody went to. I said, I wanna go there without, you know, any parental support. I worked here. I set up offices here. I set up my father's logistic system here. And then I was, I think, audacious enough to tell him I need to buy a part of your business in Bombay. Wow. And he just said, please fine. Cough up the money. And I had none. So, I thought that if I am to work and that instance I realized that everybody said I was successful because of my father's daughter. And I felt that that would then be a dead end for me. And, nobody considered the fact that this is a girl who has set foot in logistics thirty two years ago. And, I realized it would be you know futile to just kind of keep going at it. So I came back to Delhi and I think he was relieved till I just quietly filled, you know, the Miss India form. Adi, would it love to be a fly on the wall in your home? No. And I think I still remember that phone call at the dining table. He was seated. We had this place in Vasankunj. The it was a rented flat and the call came and somebody has picked it up. They said why is Times of India calling? I was like it's for me. And they're like, why would they call you? And they just wouldn't give me the phone because, you know, there's a hierarchy in such families which are conservative that why should the girl take the phone and who are you? And there was a lady on the other end. She said, can I please speak to this girl, Swati Malhotra? And I said, but why? She's been selected. They said, we're for war. Oh, god. We are calling from Feminine Miss India. And there was a bombshell. And my father just lost it. He was like, what? Why are you doing in a beauty pageant? Have you looked at I think my sister started laughing because they said Your sister's a young middle name? Yeah. They're younger but they just started laughing. Everybody started laughing. They said, but you don't even, you know, wear color coordinated clothes. And where's this This is this bunch of competition come from? And I said, because you can't fix the race. I said, you can't fix the competition. So he had an office assistant and that office assistant was told, okay, fine. Go and go with Smriti. She will lose and get her back home. Right. And I would do one round and she would dutifully chale and I would pack my bag. I would go and times when they would run after me. No, no, no. You've gone to the next phase. Right. And I was like, oh, have I? Right. And that happened quite often. The assistant got fed up. She just called her father. She said, I think sir something, you know. This kid is not feeling. I said, remember Pradeep Guha was alive and he was the person. He said, come here kid. Can you just stand? And I'm like yeah. And then he started talking to me about current affairs. Yeah. I was like oh you have to answer questions on news and then I went. But that was my first kind of introduction to media media. Yeah. Because for me it was like, oh, all you have to do is compete and your talent will make you stand out. Right. And then you should know things about current affairs. That was my Right. Mind space then. Till I landed in Mumbai and I saw the pageant. I was like, oh, okay. Current affairs? No. Yeah. But I think what it gave me was an exposure that I never had before. To be alone, in a competitive world where beauty mattered. I also realized that that was not my cup of tea. The exhibitionism as a model was not my cup of tea. So You wanted to do something that had more. I wanted to do something which had which fueled me. And you need a certain discipline to look good, you know, to present yourself. I had none of it. And I think that mercifully then I I had taken a loan from my dad because he's like, I mean, who's gonna pay for this? I'm like, you are. He says fine, but you have to give the money back. Pay me back. So we reached an understanding. I still remember the night I lost. I called him to say, video con washing machine. Now think back since 1998. Yeah. A washing machine video con used to be this let's see ad, little big thing. As I've got this this this gift in the pageant and I said this is the total value of it. So can we just I actually made him deduct it and he humored me. So fine but you still have a huge load of money to pay back. So I said no I'll work. He said I'll give you one year. Work and if you can't pay me back, marry whoever I tell you to marry. Wow. I would ask you so many questions about whether you think this was like the right motivation for you. Was it like you know because that relationship between father and daughter is I think you have to understand this is a person a person my father was bereaved when he was a young what seven year old kid. You know he himself, so He lost his? He lost his parents. His parents. And he was the youngest in his family. So he had nobody to kind of guide him or show him the way. Fell in love as a youngster with my mother. He was from the Congress party. My mother's from the RSS. So I was like, this had divorced written all over it. And that too in the emergency. You know, that's the worst time. I'm like, who falls in love in the emergency? People are getting you know hassled. But I think he spoke from his own insecurities. He didn't want me on the streets. And you need to understand that about parents. I think you also understand it when you age yourself. Of course. It takes a while to get there. It takes a while. But there was some kind of an understanding because I'd seen my parents go through that whole phase and financially I'd seen their struggle. So I and also there were a lot of Shadi Karishtas from very very financially refined families. Suitable. So everybody in the family said why are you making your life so difficult? Just marry the right guy who has you know, the money to give you a comfortable life. And they are speaking from their experience of having gone through hardships. Right. And to pay off that loan Bandra Linking Road had the first McDonald's ever. That's where I worked. And even that job was so weird because in Churchgate in Mumbai I finally got fed up of doing the rounds of you know Nataraj studio and all the studios of the world where I wanted to get some acting because I was told during the Miss India finals that you know you know how to act. I'm like acha. You know you're comfortable with the camera. So these two are acting up. Yeah. So I said acha. So what do you do when you act? Right. I said no you can do ads. Right. Because I'm not gonna do lamp shows. It just made me very uncomfortable. Right. So they said, you're an act and everywhere I would go they would say you're a crappy actor. With auditions and all that. Yeah, I mean brutal you know it. It's horrible. Yeah. And and I was just counting the days. I didn't give a damn when people say oh you're bad. I was like oh God I have one year and the clock is ticking away. And I realized I mean I had my last what little money left. I went to church. I said let's get a job because in between jobs I'll go and audition. And I still remember there was a jet airway, the airline company, an ad out for flights to orders. And I'm like, okay, I'll do this and it's got a good salary package. And there were many people in the acting world who were doing both. I went there the guy just looked at me and said you don't have the personality. I said okay but because I was waiting the whole day to just have my turn at the interview, I realized that the next door interview was McDonald's. So I went there and I asked him, do you have a job left? I'd like to, you know, kind of interview for it. And the person there said that, I mean just the last rung is left. I said what is that? They said, well, the person, you know, who kind of mops the floor a little. I said, do I get to say welcome to McDonald's? They said, no. They said, that's the next rung. I said, Channa, what do you do in this rung? So they said, you clean the dishes and you swab the floor. And maybe you don't have that paper thing sheet that they put on the tray. I did my job. So they say you get to do this. I said how much is the money in? That was like what $3,100. But you get a workout. Then you get the break. You get the food and I was like done. Yeah. Done. In between, I will do But this is all part of the bigger plan which is to then presumably act? No. Just to paycheck. Just pay my father back. Pay your father back. Yeah. I had no such ambition that I'll be some Meena Kumar or But financial independence and you understood financial independence means the ability to make choices. Financial independence, I think I just wanted to succeed. I was very clear. I'll be a success. Yeah. Now I had said this since I was seven years old and my mom was like, what makes you think that, you know, you're being so and I was very inclusive or I'll be, you know, one day watch me. And she's like, oh. Yeah. I mean, look at your circumstances. I have no idea. Yeah. But they will talk about me. I still remember when I first came to Mumbai, my mom was with me and you know there's a Kamla Nehru Park Yeah. In town. Yes. And I went there's a shoe shaped thing in the park and I thought that this is I mean now if you look at it retrospectively it's like this whole Kate Winslet moment in Titanic looking at the whole Queen's necklace and I said one day this city will know me and my mother would have whacked me. So you know, you need to come back to reality. Why do you think this will happen? I said I have no idea. But it's so amazing that this can happen. You know, these people, a lot of people think that these are dreams that have have no legs. And I was not afraid about it. I was very clear. Yeah. And then so much has happened since then. And that's what I started with Raseel is that you have achieved so much. And then of course It was a sale I have achieved much. It's like, now I'm going to give you a question number. Please. But this was just the beginning of what is it like to be back as Tosi? And is the character does it does it have any kind of I don't know if you're allowed to say does it encapsulate some of your evolution as a woman? I always get the character as close to the real me as possible, in terms of the emotions or the stance or, the only difference is I told mister Irani that you don't get as lucky as mister Virani. Where if you cheat on me, don't think I'll sit there and, you know, do poo de of yours. That's not gonna happen. Yeah. But I think that in terms of certain positions that the character took, tonality and all that, I kept it as close to reality as possible that when a drama set up and soap opera. But 25 years old, we did do stuff on marital rape, on domestic violence, on euthanasia, on adult literacy. So it's not as if we were aggressive. I was too busy, didn't have the time to defend it. And it was incumbent upon the production house, Ekta, and that's who got, you know, kind of, loaded with that kind of a pushback. I think people don't realize that what you see on screen if not for a documentary is actually make believe. And I don't know why people think that make believe has to be real. Right. Because if it was real, people would not watch it. Right. So there has been a segment in the industry which has sold, some scripts in the guise of, oh, this is not make believe. This is very real. Which is, what has led to this kind of division. I think for actors it was always about whether a story or a character makes sense. In terms of the reprise, I think what is important now is the understanding that your audience has changed and the understanding that now the medium has changed as well. Twenty five years ago there was no OTT. Twenty five years ago there was no ten thirty slot people went to sleep. So we kept them awake. We created the slot. We made that time a prime time. That in itself was an achievement. But do remember twenty five years ago to have a female producer was also tough. Today movies talk about pay parity but twenty five years ago we set that bar there. And when I came in as an actor the male actor was getting paid more than me. And I was very conscious that okay, you have to prove yourself you're a new kid. Prove yourself and then make sure that then your talent gathers that worth financially from your production house or the channel pays vice versa. So I also left at the peak when I said it's okay to very ambitiously and loudly say I'm the highest paid. Because women were always told don't talk about, don't flex that muscle. And I was like hell with it. And today, I'm still proud of the fact that in terms of popularity, in terms of female production head or producer, on also how she's going to create the character and the circumstances around her, she will make sure that it has a contemporary reflection. Do you get involved with like if you feel like this character says something? She's not a talk. I think it does. It does the dialogues and writing. Yeah, yeah. I think that the best part is that there's an understanding that it's a partnership. And actors deliver best when there is a sense of contributing to whatever comes to you as a scene or as a story. If you have somebody who is very closed, then you don't give a brilliant product. Any product or any project where people can work together, including technicians. I mean, there are times when I would ask, an assistant or a technician to say, do you think this sounds right? There are times when you're using colloquial language. I would actually go hunt for those people in my in my technical team to say, I one of you, are you from that background? Can we sit and, you know, kind of they would get involved. Right. And I think that's what determined our success that we didn't get siloed into our roles. Right. Marketing, programming, scheduling, makeup, technician, camera, everybody would talk to each other. And you bring your real experiences to the. You do and that's how you, we stayed consistently number one for eight years. We touched a TRP of 31 which is unheard of. But we did that because none of us were very, I think entrenched in the fame part of it. We were very proud of the product that we were giving. We were proud of the legacy that we were creating. Very focused from that perspective. So now how will you manage your time between your part time and your full time job? I was always, I mean at that time I was doing not only politics, I was raising a family, a young one. Now the nest is empty. So it's not as if you know I have crying babies to feed. Politics is something which is a service. It's not a post. It's a way of life. You can't say I'm off duty right now. I mean, I'm in Mumbai right now. So if I find somebody who says, Taiya want x y z done, can you help? I can't say no. Sorry. I'll go back and go to my station and see whether I can help there. I can't help you. Right. So I will get calls to say, Yeah. I I would get a call from Rachi Right. And say, So as a politician, I've seen the whole expanse. You would sit with colleagues to say, even if they're from the opposing party, they'd find, we want to do some research. Do you think this is, you know, something that you have some research on? So it's a twenty four seven thing. But they are politicians who are academicians, who are journalists, who are in the private sector and we get to our jobs. The only difference is that I have a camera on me. That's it. The transition, was that also something that you planned to I mean of course you must have planned it when you decided to join politics. I joined politics in 2003 formally. Like you said, okay now I with this bang I can say that I'm the highest paid actor and this this is a comfortable time to move on to something else. No. No. No. I was the USAID WHO ambassador to India between the year 2000 to 2002 which meant that when you're working with the WHO, I was working on child and women's health. You cannot take a political office and make it all political because you have to work across all verticals and irrespective ideologies with everybody. You speak for the woman, for the child, you speak on health, you speak on behalf of WHO. So you cannot get your not get your political ideologies involved because I thought it was not a kosher thing to do. And when I finished my stint with the WHO, I had the privilege of introducing ORS with zinc in our country. At that time, what? Every year five lakh children were dying because of just bad water, because of diarrhea. So my focus is very clear that can I contribute to stemming this? Can I create more awareness about it? In fact, WHO and the government posted, which is a Congress government, they actually did a study on it. And it was found that yes, beneficial impact was seen because you have to inform people that the solution is very readily and easily available. So after that in 2003 is when I formally joined politics, I was also in this Maharashtra Belt in Talasuri, Dhanu, working on village water projects. So whatever I would make as an actor, actor, part of it would go to do water projects in certain villages. Right. And those are nasal affected belt. Right. And I had, the late Gopinath Mune, he told me, he said you can keep doing any amount of social work. What is the penultimate goal? I said the penultimate goal is to make a difference possibly through policy. He said then you have to be a part of electoral politics. And that's when I became a part of politics politics, the BJP. And do you think you being a recognizable face was an asset or was it really a horrible disadvantage? A disadvantage. Because everybody presume actors have presented themselves as though politics is the last thing that they do. It's not something that they progressively do well at the peak of their career. It's not something where they go to the grassroots and work through the grassroots all the way up. Most actors are parachuted because of their popularity. Then they've just become a Rajya Sabha. Yeah, I was not one of those. When I came to active politics in 2003, I was a youth wing member of the BJP in Maharashtra. My batchmate today is the Centimeters of Maharashtra and my other colleague the president is the minister education now Dharmendra Pradhan. But even that time I remember my colleague CREA or actor Gokh Yoon Devya, there's a serious political position. I wanted to be in the trenches when my colleague can gain their respect because I knew that I was in it for the long haul. And I worked my way through grass root work then became the state secretary in Maharashtra when Nitin Dankari became president. I worked with five BJP presidents. Radnath Singh ji, Nitin Gadkari, Amit Shah, JPNanda and at that time Venk Naidu ji was the president of BJP. I in 2004 fought my first election. I was 27. So I can very safely say been there on that. Yeah. There's so many you know questions for example, if somebody wanted to become a leader in politics, a young girl, I wanted to ask if they are, like you said, you, were drawn to this. You were introduced to, developmental work as an actor and then you I was not introduced to it. It was something that I picked. Really? Okay. Yeah. Yeah. I picked. It's not how because you know What is then you get to see the expanse of your country. You get to see the health systems where you're, you know, up close. Right. I don't, I think people think politics will happen to them. Right. You have to happen to politics. Right. It has to be the other way around. And is other things that you would advise people, to do as stepping stones in terms of? There is no framework which says do cut cut cut. Like if you do this course, if you do this kind of education, if you There's no education, work at the course. There's no education, no academic adventure you can undertake to understand hardcore politics. Yeah. For that, you have to first understand what is the ideology that you like to uphold. What is your framework of contribution? You have to have that conversation with yourself first. For that you need to understand that you will never know everything. You have to be a constant learner. The other aspect is people think that oh I'll meet an x y z person who's a current leader and then become politician. Doesn't happen. It's a very tough job. You are available on phone, or available in person twenty four seven because people don't come to you for entertainment. Yeah. They're genuinely stuck on some issue. Nobody has a time for another human being. Let alone a politician. The only time they'll approach a politician is if they're genuinely desperately in need of support. Do you turn away people at that time? Say, hey, where are you coming in? You can't. Some might. Then they don't last that long because politics and especially politics in this country is a matter of service. You have to be extremely grateful to get the opportunity to serve. I've had the opportunity to serve three times. That's a privilege in a country of 1,400,000,000 people. It's a privilege and you should know it's a privilege and then respond to your parliamentary or constitutional duties accordingly. I knew what a great privilege it is. When you joined in 2003, do you think, of course you said for example, it wasn't certainly wasn't an asset, being who you were. Because many actors before me had not conducted themselves as though they were worthy Right. Of the privilege that they got. They're unfair. As a woman, I want you to understand In battle of the children actor. Yeah. The woman is a double whammy, then you're young also as well. So I was gonna say the challenges of being young, inexperienced, a woman, an actress, you know, did those were there any instances, that you found challenging because of any instances of sexism or people saying, oh, not being taken seriously. There is this huge conversation around media and politics as though they are the fulcrum of sexist behavior. Neither in media nor in politics have I faced that. Right. I don't know there's something about maybe my disposition, but even when I was a nobody in the media business, and I think not many people know that I even had a stint as a stringer, as a as a journalist. Yeah. I never faced it. So I don't know whether it's something of a vibe that I give off. It's interesting to know because, you know, it is something as you said people generally assume that in this male dominated world, this young person will come and then will be perhaps attacked in all these different ways. No. I think the attack against me where an attack is sexualized happened when I became minister. It didn't happen before that. The opposition and especially people who want to curry favors with let's say an opposition leader would have very vile attacks on me. But by then you're so experienced, I mean I'd spent twenty years, I'm like, it's being done to distract, It is being done to reduce your work. So you need to be smart enough to respond to it. Yeah. Have you ever felt that you had to choose a time where for example, you had to choose between being liked or respected, did something like that? I've never made that choice. I don't think that I have ever given validation from another human being that much of importance. I know how futile that is. Yeah. Be it politics or my personal life. I have never sought validation. Who in your family are you like? Nobody. Who else? Where does where does where does it come from? Everybody is asking me that. Nobody. I'm like nobody in my family. Do you think it came from just being exposed to the experience? I think that when you're alone as a kid. No, no. I think when you're alone as a kid and like I said to lose my grandfather must have been one of those moments where I realized that if I'm so dependent on just his presence, just that pat on the back and he's gone. So I have the rest of my life. So I'm attuned to thinking like this that oh okay there's nobody. So do you wait for that somebody to come along because then your life is about that weight. Right. Somebody very an economist in fact, dare I say, has said this that in this modern world you have to be your own CEO, CF one intern. Right. I think I realized that when I was a kid. Yeah. There were some people who said that your style, your way of talking came across as arrogant. Now I feel like that I wanted to say that, of course, we are all used to people saying anything. There's freedom of speech. You read your comments on Twitter, on Instagram. I don't know whether negative comments get to you or not. No, no. I see everything. Every word, every word. But I don't in any way deny them that space. I'm very blunt. Yeah. Which is not something which is celebrated when you're a politician. Yeah. Even in the media business, you're supposed to be nice enough to never speak the truth. Are politicians supposed to be good diplomats? Like it's are you supposed to be diplomatic? The question should be, is being diplomatic helping the constituency and the country? If it does, by all means, be that. When we go internationally to present ourselves, can we be abrasive in the face of vicious attacks, diplomatically so on our country? No, you have to be smart on your feet and kind of weave your way around it. So it depends on what job has been assigned to you. So if I am representing my country and somebody who meets me is not very kind, I have to think what is the cost my country will bear if I do not behave appropriately and diplomatically so. 2019 was a big deal. My whole life has been a big deal. Life is a big deal but I'm saying having joined politics for the world it was a big deal. No. I was very clear if anybody picks up any of my interviews between 2014 and '19, There was this stoicism with which I said oh I'll win '19. And if you pick any interview of mine between 2019 and '24 you will only hear me say well whoever is getting the seat from the bjpeg and amici they will do the best and try and beat congress. I never spoke about I will do this between '19 and '24. But I was very vehement about what I said between '14 and '19. What do you think happened between '14 and '19 to help you secure that? I think that we all presume that it's all us. It's not. Sometimes also destiny. And what are the chances of somebody coming from out of nowhere from the streets of Delhi and landing up and then working for five years and then defeating the national president of the Indian National Congress. That's never happened in the history of our country. I think they didn't see me coming. They took you like you. Which is good. Yeah. Now they saw me coming. Yeah. How did you spend that day when they were counting votes? In '19? Yeah. Listening to music. By yourself? Yep. In my room. And antsy, edgy, asking people like what is your account? Everybody was on the table from what 05:30 everybody ran. 06:00 everybody on the table and they said, Didi had to come here. I'm like Yeah. No? No. Because I knew what I'd done. And so I just put on some music. I think I heard the music till what? Two, three in the afternoon around 04:00. I think Rahul Gandhi gave a statement and then I had very angry editor shouting on my phone, Arnab Goswami. What is wrong with you? Come out and you know, and Arnab is somebody who was a part of my TV journey because we used to fight the establishment that did TRPs. We have a very, I think agitated about, we said it's being fakes and blah blah blah. So as young TV personas we were you know fighting the good fight for the larger industry. So I think he is the only one who would have the audacity to call and literally shout Come out. I'm like no. But I think that no. I mean, I'm very eclectic in my taste, but, I think he shouted then other people start banging on the door. And they come out come out speak. I'm like, why but let it get counted. And they were like, why are you so stoic? I think that that side of me really irritates a lot of people. Right. They're like, you know, you're so centered. Why? Aren't you excited? I'm like, no. I think it's important for me to just reach a particular goal that I've set for myself and then just walk once you take it. Yeah. You should not get so trapped with the jubilation that you don't see the next step. I had very early in my life read Rudyard Kipling's Eve. Yes. Yeah. I think I had ingrained it. So I was like, oh, he cares. So I came out. I went out and there's a photograph of me pee peeing in and asking the DM. I said, county. He said, madam. So the opposition kept taking objection out of objection. And people like, we have to fight this. I said, no. No. Nobody interfere. Yeah. Let everything get no. No. Let everything get recounted two, three times. I don't care. Count. Then at 12:00 in the night, they said, count is over and you're one. I said, thank you. I'm going. I told the team that was also working. I said, go and take the certificate. They were like, you know, what a big thing it is. I'm like, yeah. Yeah. Take the certificate. I'm catching a flight, going home, seeing my kids, and going to sleep. Sweet. So I went home. And you slept? I didn't see the headlines the next morning. Wow. I believe I was on the front page, but I didn't see anything. And then I'm saying that, you know, Bob, again because I you've had so many interviews. I don't take up too much of your time. So many important portfolios, becoming like the youngest union cabinet minister, working so closely with the prime minister. So many things that people will not be able to do in their lives. I mean, it's a unique it's a unique and very special life. I know things in in your time that I thought were remarkable, that things that you may not have, initiated with, that you fought for, that you fought for amendments for. But touching on just a couple of them, for example, you know, because you talked about malnutrition earlier as well, the potion tracker app. That was me. That was you. Exactly. That was you. So how when that came in, the difference that it made to children in Oh, when I became the minister, I was told that there are eight million children who are severely, acutely malnourished and given my training by the prime minister, I said show me the numbers and show me the evidenced position on the numbers. Somebody from UNICEF said, oh, but this is a supposition. I said you are shaming my country on a supposition. So can we start collecting data? How will you collect data? I said, well, the prime minister said, every young one body has to be digitally connected and everybody has a mobile phone. So this is about what will we do? I said, okay. I'll create an app. Yeah. Bill Gates was kind enough. He said fine. Yeah. The Gates Foundation said you want to create an app. I said I want to create it and then dedicate it to the country, give it to the government. And they coughed up some support, built it in one month, Sat with yeah. So I said, you pick your engineering team, you pick your platform people and we'll sit together and let's see what we can get done. We did we built it in one month. It had it deployed in two months. Today it has a 100,000,000 beneficiaries, 2,200,000 workers, 1,400,000 Anganwaris and in April the prime minister gave it the best innovation in governance award. That's amazing. Yeah, three months. You know people talk about the digital divide in India. It was a great, it still is a great governance tool because I would call a particular state and say listen stop paying you for So we could track how many hours somebody spends servicing the needs of women and children in that particular Anganwari. We could track the height and weight of every child. And if one child did not conform to the WHO standard, we would alert the medical community. The CMO would go look into that child. They'd be rushed to the, nutrition resource center. So we set up a very seamless, system. Even when it came to the LPG schemes, I wanted to ask if there was perhaps any instances because you work so closely on the grass root lab. I actually saw most of it flourish even in my own constituency. See before I came to Amity, around 60 to 70% people didn't have electricity. Before I came to Ometi, I didn't have a CT scan machine or an x-ray machine in any of the hospital. The district hospital didn't have that. I helped build the collector's office there. Right. The chief medical officer's office there. So I had to begin from scratch. By the time I was done my service in Amity, we had one lakh homes built, three and a half lakh farmers connected to the treasury. We had one and a half lakh women who got the LPG connection, close to what 80,000 families that got electricity connection for the first time. I built the first 200 bedded women and women and child hospital there. Brought in the first CT scan. Boeing was kind enough to donate it. What else? Oh, I built the first medical college there, the first jail there, police line, Then what four, five labs for farmers. And yes, I managed to get an airport under Udan scheme along with cleaning up of Nallis. Everybody everybody would, you know, kind of if I pass through village, I said, Didi, wait. I have this problem with the Nallis. Can you call somebody get it fixed? So you while you're building all that infrastructure, Amidi was never connected to the national highway. So my good colleague, Nitin Gargan, I'm like sir, I need, you know, highway passage. Okay, fine. I need a ring road. Okay fine. I think it's the just the joy of building something for somebody else, not for you. But imagine one lakh homes means at least four people live in one home. Yeah. To give four lakh people a roof over their heads. That is joy. And that idea again I'm seeing even when it comes to banks and you know doing the job that's We had the largest Coca Cola factory in South Asia open up in a METI. And the Russians had opened up in collaboration with the government of India an AK two zero three rifle factory. So that's what gets, it's the supply for the Indian army. The rifles of the Indian army come from Amity now. And you know because we're talking again about money and how important it is have to have financial independence. The Janan scheme also Yeah. 55% of them women, you know, 500,000,500 Indians opened an account. Yeah. And so in which two forty million were women. Then I saw Mudra open up. Mudra had 300,000,000 loans given out. 70% of the beneficiaries were women. And you were encouraging women and telling them the need to have the It's one city right now, which is all the, how do I say this? Walkers, street walkers out of which six lakh women have gotten loans. Yeah. So we used to collect small, small, small, you know, these cohorts of women. Self help groups for nine crore women receive like 8 lakh crore rupees from the government straight into the account. So in your constituency, you would give out that money. In your constituency you will get that hawker to sit together. You see lives being built around you. I think there's no greater satisfaction than that. There is nothing, no adulation that you can get as an actor which is comparable to the satisfaction you get out of building homes and lives. I wanted to touch on one of the other ones which was the prevention of child abuse. Yeah. I think again you know, even when I was a student, we would learn about international relations and there was a subject on gender and international relations. And this concept or this conception that perhaps women in positions of power would be against the death penalty and that we might be That was a stated position of my party. Indeed. So I was there in opposition when the prevention of sexual harassment at workplace bill was passed and I spoke on behalf of the opposition and the then government. I was there in the opposition when the Nirbhai case happened. And again midnight, we were, legislating on it. I was in Rajasubha. Again, I had the privilege of speaking for all political parties that night. I think that it is a process which I saw unfold before me. In 2014 when Prime Minister Modi took office, not a penny had been spent. So when I became gender minister, the officiating capacity that my ministry had, we said what all does, you know, the prime minister envisage out of the Nirbhaya Fund. We had 700 plus one stop crisis centers set up across all districts of our country. We had ten sixty eight fast track codes set up across the country, of which around four forty codes were only for children. And what close to two and a half lakh cases got solved in it. Forensic science labs opened up, rape evidence kits distributed. At every police thana, we had a women's help desk which came through. What all have we done? 35 help lines for women. What? Over 20 crore calls answered, tracked. Even if they would repeatedly somebody would call it would get tracked. We set up the first ever Sambad program to help caregivers of children who were in conflict with law and they were living in those children's homes, 7,000 such. We actually ensured that all of them, we set this, I set this legislation in place where we made pornography digitally the punishable under law. There is a lot one could do and that's why I'm saying that the adulation you get as an actor is nothing. The fact that you're of value to your country, to your people. Yeah. That some kid will get the protection of that law. For For instance, I was on set today and somebody in scheduling was running around. I'm like, yeah. Yeah. No. No. No. We have to take a child actor. So we have to go through this process and they have to get a psyche well done. And I was smiling. They said, didn't you write the I said, yeah, I did. I wrote the book on this. Yeah. I wrote the book on this. To tell men at work that if you want to intervene and tell something to a female about, let's say, I mean, somebody's wearing a dress and a male colleague on set wants to correct something, you have to actually stop them to say, listen, don't make any verbal such indications where you in any way besmirch the lady or cause her any grievance. Suddenly everybody around you is mindful that oh a charm, we can't do this. So your experience as a politician comes handy even in this place of work. Mhmm. Where as a technician, you can tell people, fine. If you're in trouble, these are your rights and this is the benefit or this is the support one can garner for you. Be it from an insurance perspective, some technician falls sick or if a technician is hurt at work. So that is a body of work that gets now reflected within the industry. How can I protect the rights of those who don't have a fancy paycheck? Right. But now with me around, people in production who otherwise would be a bit stern, I like, she may just unionize them. So No. I think it'll be incredibly valuable to argue on any sector including this one. We have had women at the top positions of power in this country, but still representation is there's a gap. How do you how do you evaluate that gap? The Global Gender Gap Index report speaks about this whole value that they bring to what is political empowerment of women. I've contested it at the World Economic Forum and I have a letter from them. I had it as a minister because they would show India in bad light. And I said give me the matrix of computation which is they say oh no we look at women in parliament, hogwash. They look at the women who are cabinet ministers. They don't count the women who are in the council of ministers under the prime minister's leadership. They don't count women who are ministers in state governments. They don't count women who are elected to state legislative assemblies. I thought these were the ones with this. No. It's the 10% state assemblies. No. We have 1,400,000 women as we speak today who are elected to Panchayats. Mhmm. Because the minute you start counting the 1,400,000 women, forget the only women in parliament, only women in legislative assembly, just the volume of 1,400,000 women from India puts India at the door. So, just because others don't have this decentralized constitutional hierarchy to serve in, our 1,400,000 women get counted out. Right. Now, it is extremely difficult to fight an election in a Panchayat because the voter base is smaller. You are indigenous to your constituency. It is much tougher there because you're coming from the rural ramparts. Imagine that tough election winning it and still not getting counted. Today you have close to 1.9 crore women who are in administrative services in our country. 60 lakh are only those who are Asha and Angadwadi workers. They don't get counted as harbingers of power, as administrative and obviously as ordained by law, effective partners in the growth of our country. So the issue that we need to ask and I've asked this of the World Economic Forum is, if you don't count us, if we are not spoken of, does that mean we are not resilient enough or powerful enough? If you look at the finance commission, the treasury had tied money that goes from the treasury to the panchayat on the basis of gender spend. That is something nobody talks about. Not many countries. I feel that maybe India is the only country which has tied the funds from the treasury to the panchayat on gender but never gets spoken up. So what did the letter say what they sent you? They said they'll fix it. They haven't yet. But this Because to fix it, you have to find other parallels to our democracy. There are none. But it's still important to have that 33% legislation. No. But it got passed. Yes. I've seen the struggle of two decades, two and a half decades by women across political lines who wanted to make sure that the 33% legislation passes. I was witness when Radnath Singh ji made it 33% reservation for women within the BJP possible. I think what for me as somebody from the BJP is of great importance and a matter of great joy is that two men at the helm made sure that the reservation happens for women. Right. We've had political organizations where women have led them. Right. But they haven't done this for other women. But I want you to spell out for some people why it's important to have that. Because it gives you even playing field to compete. That is what you need right now. A legislative compulsion to give that opportunity just to compete. We don't have that right now. And you think that increased representation of women will change the national discourse in some way? It is being evidenced through research. Whenever women have constitutional or administrative authority and control over spend, their spend on education, health is far greater. Their spend on public infrastructure is far greater. Their savings are far greater. Let's say just Mudra. Right. Okay. Before Mudra came, everybody spoke about the lack of money especially for those who are from very very financially challenged backgrounds. That even if they wanted to be entrepreneurial, they won't have access to credit. This is for credit you need collateral. Right. So Mudra took away that burden of collateral. And the minute women landed up, it was not a gendered financial intervention. Mudra had known that you have to give the loan to women. No, it's women from the smaller towns, villages who created a business plan. Now the numbers look great, but just imagine that singular woman from a village or a town or a slum made a business plan, went to the bank, explained to the bank manager or any official what her business is all about, gets that loan, services it and pays it back. Okay. If you look at the NPA today for women owned businesses, the NPA is less than 2%. The NPA for male owned businesses in that segment is two and a half percent. Right. So women have not only proved that they are financially prudent, they've proved that they are financially responsible, but women in our country have made a financially evidenced case for women around the world. Right. So I believe that these are things which are not spoken of because for too long we were the country where people would just pat us on their head and say, you came from a fragile economy. Now suddenly you're the fourth largest. What do you think the top three are gonna do to you? Hug you? No. They're gonna elbow you out. Right. So they are going to kind of undo, try and undo a lot that you've done to create a national confidence in what you are as a country. And they will hit a lot of such verticals to say, how do I minimize the impact? Let's again reflect on another truth which cannot be denied. Remember COVID, we did not have a vaccine. There were countries that were running out of toilet paper. Yeah. We made sure that our vaccine program was on an app called COVID. But we not only administered that vaccine to 1,400,000,000 people and two doses. That's not an easy feat. In 06/4000 villages in a country which is as diverse as us, geographically as you know diverse as us, we managed to do that and then we sent that vaccine to 160 countries. It's not an easy task. From all the various projects initiatives, is there one that was closest to your heart? Every one of them. And is there one story? Every one of them. I see so many families woke up to me. I used to be minister education. I had the privilege of writing the base document for the National Education Policy. So I have kids and I used to write letters to kids who did well and you know the tenth and the twelfth board exams. Teachers who were very supportive. Children who are the young who had who are differently abled. I meet many such people. I meet, I mean randomly I was standing someday just trying to get into my car. Somebody ran from our and said, I'm from home ATM. I'm like, I'm from home ATM. I walked into your studio today. Yes. I don't know anybody from Adams. Yeah. I know. I was a Gujus Irish speaking to me in Gujrat. Yeah. And They always speak in Gujrat. Yeah. But I'm not a born Gujrat. My dad is a Maharashtrian. My dad is a Punjabi. Post partition came to Uttar Pradesh. My nanny is from Assam. My nana is Bengali. And I have a Parsi husband. But the minute they all saw me, there was born in me also. They all knew me. Yeah. And I think that's the greatest joy about being me. And how do you help me? And anybody can pick up any you and I first met on an airplane. Yes, I know. I remember when I messaged you, I said I would remember. But nobody knows this. No. But one of the first people that I interviewed thirty years ago was your brother. Yeah. I don't. So my life is pretty strange. There is generally evidence of six degrees of separation. Really? But I do meet a lot of people who have. And even today you keep that grass field connection in life. How? I have no idea. Isn't life beautiful just when you're approachable? I I like to be approachable but I I mean not everybody. I mean I didn't know you from Adams. No. You saw me on a street in London and we could just wave to each other. My, you know my family looked like you know so well you can't be like no. And why did she so is there something about you that makes people comfortable? Yeah. And I think if you have that trait that's a valuable trait. You should keep that. How many hours at night do you sleep? No idea. You don't need But it seems my cameraman says when I sleep for only two hours, I look better. That's not true. It is? That won't last. I have oh, I don't know. But it has till now. And do you have some kind of like, self care? No. You're like, what what is that? What do you mean self care? No. I think as you You look amazing, I would say. Thank you. That's all makeup. But I know. As you I think as you grow older, you enjoy your silences more. I love my silence. I love my own time. I love all of that. I don't know how much me can get but I just like the silences at times. It's lovely to watch. I love to see people thrive. I love to see people happy. I want to ask, again because your life is there's so much to talk about. Your proximity to the prime minister, to work with somebody that people will not most people will not have a chance to meet. As a Let me break the biggest myth. Okay. There is nobody close to the prime minister. But the ability to perhaps Everybody who and anybody that you ever meet who says how great close relationship they share with the prime minister. They either don't know the prime minister or their outright line. He's somebody who left home and heart for a larger purpose. He has never picked up people who then don't become effective enough to serve that larger cause. Mhmm. For him, it's very clear I have one life. I ought to give back to my country. That's it. So he doesn't entertain or he doesn't indulge people just for the sake of indulgence. What I've learned, I've worked with him since 2002, twenty three years now. He teaches you how to work at the details. You better know your job and more so if you're working with him because he has an elephant time memory. He will remember what you said on that topic in 2007, what you did in 2016, and he would just look at you and like, no, I don't think so. So you don't want to be in that space ever. In my ten years of working with him as minister and I'd worked, if you look back, my two opportunities of serving in Rajya Sabha were courtesy him. He's very clear. I mean, I still remember the first time I filled my form for Rajya Sabha. It was just him, me, mister Irani, and we were sitting in the and every other candidate had the whole Tasha and this whole entourage. And he just looked at the two of us. I said, let's go. Hardi gets up and he says, I'm nominating you. So there's this hush in the corridor. He goes, sign the papers. You sign? Okay. Congratulations. Okay. All the best. Go. I go. He leaves for his office. By the time I get to Ahmedabad, this is Gandhi Nagar is his office. I get Ahmedabad. There's a knock on my door to say, listen, lady. These are books here to study. These are the issues you have to take up on behalf. So he's very, very focused. Article. He's very focused. And one learning, one How to work. How to work. And two example also. Dispassionately. He doesn't get very infused with emotions. He's very, very clear. No favorites. Doesn't forget faux pas at all. So that's a tough taskmaster. And if you're with that taskmaster for ten years. You become good at your job. Yes. You become sharp in there. Tell me about the this era of politics. There's a lot of, for example, direct access now. People are on Twitter, people write directly to the constituency. I mean it's good. I mean for too long people in this country were told, right, what to do, how to do. Now I think social media has democratized access to power which is good. No politician should ever forget that this is a service. It's not a privilege for you to enjoy. It's not a safety net. It's not comfort. If you don't want to serve people, please don't take that seat and don't waste the people's time. This is a country we are serving. To ask you about this. Yeah. I haven't finished it, but I'm reading it because then But isn't it well written? It is Sorry I sound pompous, but it is well written. No. It is so well written down to the acknowledgments at the end also, which I really enjoyed reading. I many questions again. But the It's a thriller. People expected me to write something either political or poetry or whatever. This is edgy past or thriller. Done it and you you you read it. It's it's a page turner. But, do you feel like sometimes you know, you said it was also driven by you went to a press conference, you got very angry, by some of the, insights that people make. Pushed you to write the story and then you felt that fiction was necessary. Yep. So can you tell us a little bit about that? I think that I have this great affinity to those who wear the uniform. Yeah. And I feel that in a country where people pursue power and politics, where people pursue money, where people pursue fame, those in uniform only pursue service. They know that their valor may be celebrated or go unnoticed. They sacrifice their lives. We may think of them on the August 15 or on the January 26 or maybe when somebody's bestowed a medal. Otherwise, can you imagine knowing that you may be forgotten but still going to serve. So I wanted to tell the story of such people who served absolutely unnoticed in some of the toughest terrains in our country, who die, become a small headline. This was my way of saying thank you. And in the acknowledgments you said that you felt the need to write it, write a fictional story. I can't in a constitutional position, given my responsibilities, write fact. You know too much. So you but it then liberates you and you're able to say things. No, the story was waiting to be told for ten years. I just had to say it. That's it. So it brings me back to, I think it was my first or second question is so it brings me back to the beginning where so much has been done and you said you feel like you haven't done anything. So what do you feel you would like to do next? I have no idea. I just know that whatever it'll be will be to the best of my ability. That is the only thing I can assure you of. I think ambitions transitioned from wanting a roof over my head and two meals a day, the security of a paycheck the next month to now having that security and wondering should I be asking for more. So what I seek is an opportunity to serve. Today, I serve at the crossroads of both politics and media. The only person doing it. Forget the only woman, only person doing it. I'm mindful of the fact that I'm the first one from the industry who has served as education minister and written, you education policy. That's never happened in the history of our country. When COVID struck, I'm the textile minister who India never had a PPE kit industry. I had create the industry when the country's back was to the wall and there was this huge global challenge. And in three months, we became the second largest exporters to the world now. That has been my contribution. What I've done in television is obviously marked in history. But like I said, if you ask me, 2003, did I know I'd do all these things? I didn't. I think the one thing COVID taught us was like, no matter what your plan, you need to respond to God's plan. That's true. And you need to be able to just adapt. Just be grateful when you wake up the next day and say, okay, can I make this better for somebody? That's it. That's the ambition. Can I be better than me? And can I make this day a bit better for somebody else? And just lastly, because now you find yourself acting again. You do have a voice as an actor also. So do you feel Which may not align with other actors voices at times. But I feel like you'll be heard. Yes. But I think that what are the voices that are not heard? The sound technician is not heard. The camera person is not heard. Hair and makeup is not heard. Union artists are not heard. Mainstream actors do get a voice. But will you amplify their voices? Yeah. Like you did today. But they are very much. I mean, we get seen. Right? Yes. But they are doing the hard work. And lastly, if you, Dulce today, could say something to Dulce twenty five years ago. Get a better paycheck. Yeah. Get a better paycheck is a good one and I think you have. I did. Thank you so much for giving us so much of your valuable time Thank you. And really sharing some amazing insights. I'm so honored to be in this conversation with you and I really do feel that we have very few role models when it comes to women. No. In those positions. I don't say role models. Men and women have feet of clay. So it's your responsibility and mine to see if you're looking for role models, look around in your own families, look at your mother, look at your father, who may do much for you and never get seen. See them, be grateful there in your life. Some people have complicated family lives, doesn't matter. Be grateful glad that you're alive. That's it. Stop looking at other people as idols. You may find some right there in your family. Thank you so much, Smriti ji. I was really excited to have this conversation with you and I feel that everyone at home, would have really benefited from learning about real experiences working on the ground. Some valuable takeaways, I think, of anybody who has aspirations to join public service and to perhaps give back to their country. Leadership is actually built over years of hard work. It takes continuous learning and it's very important to, as you said, stay connected to your purpose and to have that sort of clarity. I hope, today's episode leaves you at home as inspired as I am. I do want to thank you for watching another episode of All About Her. Please don't forget to like, share and subscribe and we will see you soon with another remarkable story. Until next time, stay informed, stay healthy and we'll see you soon.
