Do you feel like you need to prove yourself in the world? Gandhi. Apologize to the nation. My father had a stroke. I know what I've lived in that one hour, fifteen minutes. When you lost election, you felt nothing. We have lost elections before. I was smiling and I was like, what's your name? So, follow. Enjoy the show. What hurts more? Being, mhmm, as a as an actor when somebody underestimates you, as a politician when you get hate more? No. Nothing. Nothing hurts me. It's a good thing when people underestimate you. They don't see you coming. If you still have that, it's a good thing. You should use any negativity that normally people do not know how to deal with, as a instrument towards success. But could be I said You cannot get so bogged down. Politics. Media. This was me when I was 24, 25. Okay. When I'm 49, I realized the potential of networks. But networks also get with you two, three burdens or disadvantages. Okay. Analysis emotionally. To explain network and explain the advantages of that. I will link school fintech school established. Mhmm. Physically Berkeley digitally. Okay. Face to face. Notes exchange. It does not matter what your language is. It does not matter what your geography is. Sometimes coming from simple backgrounds in itself is a chip on the shoulder, which is agnostic to your culture. Exchange networks power. To Ivy League school international think tank relationships build foundation So I think that is what networks get you. Access to places. Access to information and new information. Commercial. Just the whole journey of knowing in itself is brilliant. But you mentioned chip on the shoulder. Do you think ambitions? Do you feel need constant to prove yourself in the world? Chip on the shoulder. So you felt the need to prove yourself? Didn't feel the need to prove myself. I think what takes a lot of people aback is the tenacity. How dare you? That is the other thing the rich teach their kids, which middle class, lower middle class doesn't teach. How do we teach? No. Less competent intelligent handle Who will go to 10 people who are actually working? Uh-huh. Hear everything that they are doing. Go to the boss before the hard worker gets to the boss. See, you know what? I think this should happen. You know? I know. That, I have, I think the middle class never teaches. That is the one burden most middle class people are bogged down with. How to serve the master? Uh-huh. Mhmm. Because we were supposed to we were taught to be humble, loyal, hardworking. How to leverage, how to be flashy. Never. Never. Never. Never. Never. Never. Never. Never. Not that. But maybe So if you are going to be forgotten, why waste time? The only difference is I've lived my life predominantly in front of the camera for twenty years, twenty, twenty five years. So I'm seeing. But even if there is no light on and there's no camera facing me, I'm just the same. Has it ever happened? You know in your head. We all know. But there is somebody This power is a state of mind. Nice. It is not an individual. It is not a position. It is a state of mind. And if you realize that, then you can leverage it. But how do you How do you define power? Tell me. I don't know. I have a question, and then I'll define. How do you enter a room where you know inherently key intelligence wise, position wise, passive wise, multiple other factors do be vanity metrics. Once otherwise, other person was superior position than you. Right? Then how do you not succumb to that power? And we Why do you have to succumb to anything? That is what I'm saying. Power is a state of mind. If you presume somebody has more money than you, then look at exact the context that you've set up in a different fashion. Why are you in the room? That person with money, that person with power, why do they want you in the same room? The fact that you understand that aspect means who has power. You know, I don't let anyone be more powerful in this room. I feel very friendly with somebody, whoever it is. Because it's it's that maybe I've trained myself in that Chip on the shoulder. I won't let anyone be let's see. Power position in you. No. The fact that you're saying I won't let anyone be is power. How do you get off this? You don't. You have to live your life to your comfort and to your truth. What may be true for me, what may be my way of life may not be yours. True. Why do you seek conformity? If you stop seeking conformity, you will stop next step is stop seeking validation. Mentoring session with Harini now. It's me and you. I am on the other end of podcast. I know it's true. Why? I don't know. It's that It's all different. When your boy comes out. No. But that's okay. That's what keeps you relevant to yourself. It makes you watch over your shoulder always. So anytime people tell me see, Hamara, again, I'm just presuming foundationally, you and I may have certain, you know, foundational pieces of our life, which may be similar. How are we taught how to deal with life? We are never taught. We pick up the threads later. We call these people friends. Transparently. Juxtaposition workplace. What are you saying? Yeah. Life. True. True. Do you think as as a woman, if you're a powerful woman, criticisms problem. Women in power problem. In power suddenly power. Yeah. They have, this this something called the IPU. It's the International Parliamentary Union. Okay. Mhmm. Parliament defense. Having the same conversation. How they have to be doubly alert so that they're not looked upon as abrasive. And these are women of the world and parliamentarians and ministers. Around the world, same. It's the same. Tell me two or three things. And there's also a generational differentiated position. There's a generation of women who are in their fifties, sixties. Stiff backlash or their character would be assassinated. So they're 50 years old who've had those experiences. They say you're inexperienced. Then they say that. When you're 40 to 50, you're told make way for the 20 year old. When you're 50 to 60, you might as well be dead because you're. So it's not easy. I'm not being one of those, feminist. It was good. Then they don't see you coming. Then they you. And sadly, you have such a huge body of work that they can't deny you. Problem when you've proven. Nice. And have you felt there's I was reading about it in article. Okay? Specifically, and it was talking about actually worldwide women all around the world. People stop loving them. Like, people love them till the time they're very powerful. After they're powerful, then the case is. There's an there's an expectation that you will be maternal. It's a wrong expectation. It's not a bad reflection on men. It is a bad reflection on upbringing. Around the world, upbringing? Context of how they may not be viewed. Nurturer or nurturing umbrella acceptable Your power should not shriek. It should always whisper. If power shrieks, then you truly do not understand power. Silence is power. Wow. Absence is power. True. So we translate these emotions on a wider canvas. And you have to understand that. It's not that even if I'm saying politics. You learned all of these things or it was inherent? This is me, but I've never spoken about me. Fifteen years, I've spoken about my party. Before that, I've spoken about my work as an actor. These are the rare consequences. Nobody has asked me all this. What's the most misunderstood thing about you? I don't know. Because you're misunderstood in some metrics by many. What do you think is the biggest misunderstanding? I think it stems from the perception of couldn't care less. As a politician, do I deliver? Yes. To my party, I do. To my constituents, I do. To parliament, I do. As a person who is building policy papers, I work, with the CII, the Confederation of Indian Industries. I work with Bill Gates. Do I deliver? Yes, I do. As an actor, do I deliver on set? I do. Everybody knows. So people who are engaged with me, their expectations of me, do I fulfill? Yes. Like, you know the whispers about you only. Doesn't matter. Never mad. Never bother. No. You should have whispers about you. Mhmm. Otherwise, that means you're redundant. Yeah. So you like that? I am no attachment, which is, I think, the most scary part about being me. I don't get swayed by popularity. I don't get swayed by controversy. I don't get swayed if you hate me. I don't get swayed if you love me. But tell me one time. Okay? Think hard. You have to tell me something. But one time where koi rumor, koi insight, there's something that really affected you, which it got under your skin. Yeah. There we all have that. You're spiritually unaffected. You're as the human being, I can see. Physically, mentally also. Kobi, nothing has gotten under your skin ever. Even when they attack your family My family did not choose, fame, attention. Do they bear the consequences of it? Yes. But can I avoid what happens to us? I can't. Even if I was not famous, would they have gone through their own journeys of disappointments? Would they have gone through their own journeys of backlashes? Would they have gone through their own journeys where they are shattered as people? Yes. Today, I'm just one factor which makes it happen in their life. Even if you remove them, I'm a factor. I'm not their whole life. But then does it affect you? I saw some clip where you got a little angry. My issue is, does it affect me? Like, there's a speech of mine that goes viral of shouting at, Sonia Gandhi. My father had a stroke just fifteen minutes before that. I'm the eldest in my family. I was the only one in Delhi. I still remember ten thirty hours to address the press. 11:00 was parliament. 10:45, my father collapsed in CP, Connaught Place in Delhi. I was at Tughla Crescent at my official residence. You are to present yourself to the parliament of India at 11:00 sharp. So what do you do? You have fifteen minutes. You can't get to CP. You can get to parliament. And you don't have the time to seek permission from parliament to say, Sahab, I can't appear. Why? Because you're taking a position to defend the president of India. So you rush I mean, I had nobody then. I had rushed my assistant. I said, koi jao and medanta, which was the hospital, which was one hour away. My father's taken into emergency. I go to parliament. I mean, I know what I've lived in that one hour, fifteen minutes. What was going on in your head? Just to get him to a doctor and just to go to parliament, finish my parliamentary obligations. I finished my parliamentary obligations, went to the speaker's room, sought permission that's up because I have to seek permission from the leadership and sought permission. I still remember the home minister being there and the speaker, they were in a meeting. I'm sorry, but I'm saying this. And I said, sir, my dad just had a stroke. I need to get to him. But those are your responsibilities. You seek permission. Even in that moment? Yes. And you go and you spend that time between the hospital and your parliamentary office that your dad is okay to go about. My son collapsed the first time, second session of 2014 winter session, I think, between AIMS and parliament was on even then. None of my parliamentary colleagues knew, except my leadership, that my kid is in hospital. What prepares you for this? You've seen so much That your brain just works on your brain actually works on. Responsibility fulfill But sometimes it is pure emotion that your father, it's your kid. Yes. You logic like, how do you True test as an individual. Fair. Emotion. Responsibility. Responsibility. And I was working with two producers. He says, I can actually afford to give you a week off. But Etta could not afford because she was airing every day. So somebody went told her production. That professionals, they need to hide behind certain things to make sure that they don't look bad in front of their boss. Everybody's trying to get a job done. Everybody's dependent on that salary. Does all of this come from a sense of responsibility or does it come from a boss's order? You have to be responsible also for other people who are dependent. But no. Is it is it pure responsibility that your boss can you manage those factors to the best of your ability? You should. But tell me about that time. You didn't you didn't answer that. What? There was this any time when your family will get the tag. It it gets to your head. No. Irritate and they'll say anger. No. I think what happens is and what my people who love me do not want is something inside me snapping and me wanting to kind of settle that score. Like, you don't want this woman settling score. Do you settle scores? No. Never? No. I take it as an indication genuinely. That everything will be downhill from now if they have done this to me. It has happened. So anytime somebody does something to me, And I like, what's wrong with you? Why would you smile? And later when I started exhibiting these examples, I'm like, hope. So I genuinely believe it'll happen. You have to know that you're not where you are without God's blessing. So if it is a domino effect and you're being pushed, that means somebody either get pushed back or pushed forward. You have to realize that you're that one little thing. I realized that very early. I started seeing those examples before me. Wow. So you got this Everybody. No. Because it happened right in front of me. I'm lucky enough to observe. Give me an example. I was working with somebody till the last day of the ninth month while I was also doing. It was a daily talk show. And I was told This is for the lay person who's watching. Imagine this is my first stint. Stint. I've just bought a house. Very EMI. You are 25 years old. And I'm in the hospital after giving birth to my baby, and I hear I'm fired. Right before? Just after having the baby. Oh, just, sir. And I just shot, like, a day before. And they were just waiting for me to get into the hospital to see you're fired. And why? Just. Because I break bank. Replace. I started smiling. And my family I was smiling. I think that's the first time I told my family that this is gonna happen. So they said, why? I said, no, I should write mostly the script also. I should do everything. So they hired a film actor for it. We'll hire somebody whose exhibit is much more bigger intellectual, bigger name, blah, blah, blah, blah, blah. I kept smiling. And the show shut down. And the show never started again. Smriti Rani's hidden superpower. No. It is just God. And it's genuinely God. Choices. Mhmm. Consciously could choose choice regret and not get swayed at all. You have to know what is an act and what is reality. Do you know online people say you have built a very intimidating personality? Do you think so? I don't know. I think you were online and have never met me offline. How do they know? By the persona. Offline online opinion. But I said like that for intimidating personality. You have a very powerful, very strong, certain personality. I was always like this. Even when we were like, and I used to like, I was seven years old. I'll become a success. My mother, like, what's wrong with you? When I came first to Mumbai, Bombay then, I was 17. Manifest manifest is Seven p. Realization challenges. Tell me what poverty privilege Emission tenacity. And difference What do you think is different? And there's nothing more scary than to see a male member of your family cry. True. Overwhelming numbers. Because the phone is confident. And nobody should have that confidence broken. Early. Can you help? It happened about a month ago. No. Three weeks ago. You can't afford to turn up. What in you wants to help? You can afford not. Can. How can you not if God gives you that opportunity? How can you not? Strength Tell me your weakness. Come on. No. Seriously. Discipline discipline of not working out. I did. You do. You don't like. I that is one thing I didn't look after, my health. You never have. That's not a good excuse. But you don't have time. I did not have time. Now I realize I should make time. Mhmm. That's very different. Very bad weakness. Very, very bad weakness. What's what's one insecurity? What's your biggest insecurity? Don't have any. I don't believe you. Information. Intelligent. You worry. They can if you have the capacity to keep learning, that means you're intelligent enough to know that you're not completely informed. Okay. I'll ask this in another way. But what's your biggest nightmare? Tell me that. As an actor and as a politician, what will be your nightmare? I don't want it to be prophetic. I was very taken aback the way died in the Ahmedabad. I knew him for twenty five years, twenty two years. I know Bobby, Anjali Bobby. So the way he died along with the rest That's a nightmare? No. It's not mine. No. But that does that scare you a lot? Most people won't even think about it. I knew him. I saw the photographs of the kids who were there, you know, going with their parents to start a new life. So I think the death of somebody I know in that was so close. Because what do you do to Bavi when you see her? I mean, I've seen people have seen him as chief minister, politician, blah blah blah. See, my life in BJP has been lived as somebody who's a part of people's families. Yeah. If I would go to Rajkot, which I've ever said, and, Bobby would always. You see Amit Shah as, you know, the home minister. We see Bobby. You know? We'll give a small example. Arjun Meghbal is a law minister right now. These are relationships. Suddenly to see it go. So that, I think, has kind of it's not a nightmare. And it is an oxymoron because nobody's going to inform and then go. So the eventuality of it. You a reward. That's almost everybody's fear. That's it. I know it's gonna happen. I'm gonna go. My parents are gonna go. Right now, I mean, I came last night before having this conversation. My sister was leaving for overseas. We both don't tell each other that the only reason she wants to come is to see Emma. She's going for just three weeks. But what if we don't see Emma? Yeah. So it is I do childish things, like tell my mother, And my mother just look at me. You call up my father one day on a Sunday. He works a lot. He's a workaholic. Sunday In those four hours, I must have done 50 calls on his phone. He was somewhere in Punjab. I had somebody go to his house and wake him up. Okay. I'm I'm tempted to ask you a very question. Okay? Hi. Hi. Hey. What is it like to be the inner circle of There is no top leadership in the country? There is no inner circle. PM Modi and you were in a circle. Like, they are, like, at least ten, twenty people. PM Modi is the circle. That's it. What is it like to be in that circle? PM Modi is the circle. There's nobody else. But you are at the top of the other myths that people propagate about him. Whoever has told you this is just blatantly lying. Between here. There's him. He will disseminate work. That's it. You work, you report. That's it. There's no entourage. There's no inner circle. I think I'm I'm the way I am a lot also because of how I watched him. What have you watched him? Very precise. Very professional. Very direct. No nonsense. Does not create small talk. Nothing. Hard core, work, get out. You would presume that he, you know, will have an entourage which feeds him stuff. You would be amazed by how much he is self driven, how much he has read, experienced, and brought forth on his own. What he does is he will take the best of every field, and he will say, x y z. He will tell me this is the issue. This is the outcome I want. Then he let me be. And that is the best way to learn. That is one of the best bosses to have. Not somebody looking away. He doesn't know all that. True. I worked with him twenty two years. I worked with him when he was chief minister as well. Same pattern. Or your leadership knows, You worked with Artel Bihari as well, and you worked with PM Modi. What are the differences? We call him Babji at home. So he was a philosophical poet politician. My interface with him was very different from Prime Minister Modi because I was a Karikartha who found a blessed place amongst his family. So he and I never interacted as though, you know, prime minister and a individual who's supposed to deliver on a particular project or facet. So I've seen a different side of him. But were there differences between both of them in personality. Prime minister Modi is twenty four seven driven. You haven't met anyone else who's like that? No. That man is all work every minute of the day. I have never seen him, like, for the as you guys said, chill. No. What do you mean? He's very clear. It's a huge country. 1,400,000,000 people. We don't have time to waste. Very clear on that. Babji was somebody I had seen 25 year old He would give you that space to culturally evolve. So I've seen a different facet of him. You joined in 2003. Yeah. And then you got your major response within 2014. I mean cabinet Cabinet. Major votes at the time. Organizationally, I was in. You're from Indore. So Taiji is from Indore. Right? I know. I know. So me and Tai again go back twenty years. So I've worked in Indore. I've worked in your city. So I live by Holkar I'm one of those people who's done the Palki also. You were all everywhere. I know you have done so much work. Star prachar. Apart from that, I've been the, vice president of the youth wing here in Maharashtra. Twice, I've been the national secretary. I've worked with five presidents. Who's current president, Ahmed Bhai before him. I worked with. I worked with Nitin Gadkari and Venkian I do as presidents. How do they test you before giving you any major responsibility? Is there a process? I think 2003 is when my first test was given by a politician in Maharashtra, who is no longer amongst us, Bhupnath Munde. So Munde ji was of the opinion social works. Changed. Because this is a conversation he and I had. And I was working in Talassari here in the outskirts of Maharashtra. And he was like, In tectonic shift policy, electoral politics. So what is your what is the one thing that you wanna do? Now 2003, there were not many young girls in Yuwa Mocha. It was mostly a male bastion. Youth is as much girls as as men. And, you know, women have political ambitions even if they are 18 years old or 20 years old. So why shouldn't they be? He said, we had 55 districts. The eight administrative districts as, articulated by government. One is BJP. So he said, can you find one female who is in that age group? So I said, yeah. Find me. He says, we've been trying to find. This is your six month target. Fine. Went from village to village to village across all districts. We found 50 Devendra Fardanovich, the current chief minister, was vice president with me at that time. So two, three of us got together. And across 55 spots, we found 55 young ladies who could take the issue of women leadership in youth wing forward in 2003. And I remember month five, I requested Mondegi to meet all 55. And he was like, That set, like, the template. So then they keep testing you again and again like that? They don't test you then. Everybody's assigned a project. Teams are assigned. Then you fulfill the standards, benchmarks, or outcomes that are expected of those projects. 2003 was also when Vasundra Rajiv for the first time was presented as Rajasthan chief ministerial candidate from the BJP. So Pramod Mahajan at that time was alive. So he had, been deputed to make her fight Rajasthan. And there's a group of 100 boys who had gone to kind of assist. You know? We do the runners, the ones who would set up offices, the ones who would be a part of the psychological or statistical team, who will do local prachar, who will do coordination in the office, who will meet communities and all that. Yeah. That's the only exception. 101 or 90 9 plus one. Yeah. It's just like you're dispatched many a times as a part of it. And obviously, if you're politically very, attuned or sharp, you will learn. And it depends you're watched on every assignment. So you're given the next assignment on the basis of how well you've done in the current one. If you're lethargic, if you're not a team player, if you because that's life and death. Right? It's a small kind of time window where you have to do the best. So at that time, there are enough people. So after, let's say, an assignment, elders do sit and do. That's what I'm saying. BGP is not one of those run of the mill. No. Samiksha attitude at work with people, people outside as citizens, people within the organization. Even Do you get trained as well? Is there, like, a If you're sharp, you're trained on the job. On the job as well. Trained trained on the job. But as a good external lesson, you're There is nothing that can do. Like, few leaders will make sure that we want the next leadership to come up and we'll train them specifically. This is training. On the job. This is training on the job. Like when Narendra Modi, had this whole program, Sadhavana as chief minister, he had decided press interface. Shrati Garegi. So every leader so let's say when I became guru at MP for the first time, in half an hour of me coming back to my, you know, guest house, After I filled my nomination, I filled my nomination from then chief minister Modi's office. This whole big papers and books came. Session of parliament And please represent the state well. These are the, what can you do additionally? So you would study all those points. You would speak in parliament. You would learn everything. And then you would say, so what if I go to x y z mantra or x y z specialist and push this agenda for the state and the people? So you would come back and you would report. I've done excess. Parliamentary, obviously, there is enough, the landscape is such that That's right. AVB. There is a record of your engagement. So you're tested on that. Everything. Press conference. Feedback system feedback So you presume And they have to have the freedom in their engagement with you and have to say. He's also from. He's an MP. If I have to talk something, I will call Anil. Anil, there are my point of view here. It's not always your point of view. It's party's point of view. True. And at times, it's also individual experiences that you'll want to leverage. So you it's a conversation every time. It's a teamwork. It is not something. No. It doesn't happen like that. For some, it may happen. I have not evolved as a politician because of anything else but this method of work. When you present yourself to anybody and you're presenting yourself as a BJP person, you're not affecting only your chances of how you're perceived. You're also affecting the chances of how your party, your leadership will be perceived. True. So you have to be mindful of that. True. My training is such that I will watch every creator. So that has nothing to do with me. So do you also watch things which have nothing to do with you? But you would see my introduction which has nothing to do with you or anything. Yeah. Because I will then study how you perceive the prime minister. But that's me. That's not party training. Interesting. Every email that will come to me or everything that is written about me, Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, I will know personally. So even I do not have an inner circle. That's incredible. How do you keep up with these things? Because there's enough time in the day to keep up. Typical peak performer person saying this. There is more time. That's what you all say. Because everybody will only appreciate you if they personally resonate with you. Agreed. People hate to go through hierarchies to reach you. And you have to give people a respect of picking up the phone when they call and not have some assistant get it to you. People sometimes flex it as a power play. That is stupidity as far as I'm concerned. It is much more warm when the person you're calling, even if they've become minister, can pick up the phone. Right? Because whatever goes up will come down. True. True. And the only thing people remember is how you make them feel. Nothing else? Nothing. Like, you have operated at that level. You're acting. You're coming back. Can your life be only about one thing? No. But now will you be able to accept that? Identity logo. Which means you're teaching people comfort around you to say this one. But what do you convey to the larger audience? Body shaming. It is so natural for us to do it to people, especially women. So am I conveying a very hard truth in a very, very dramatically acceptable way? This is what I fought for all my life from a policy perspective, that don't do this. We know better how to judge women and not by how their bodies look. But can I relay this information to a larger audience? I can. Will I have to take a beating for it myself to relay that information? Maybe. But what is the ultimate goal? Relay that information. But do you think people will accept this? Now they've seen you as did didi, like someone That is where the acting comes in. That is where the acting and the writing comes in. So what you see now is just me. What you'll see in is what Ekta thinks of the character. Mhmm. No difference. Except. But now, like, the way I would see or my parents would see you is very different. Yeah. They'll be like little How does the craft? You're coming back because of the craft or you're coming back because you just can't be idle or It's okay. Like busy having sex with a Okay. I've been teaching for two years. I've been teaching at IIM as adjunct faculty. Guest lecturer. Professor can join on fintech. Can you imagine? Right. Busy you are. What's the real reason for alliance world economic forum. Gender Nice. Public. What's the real reason? What do you think? Why did you say yes to this? B twenty k digital transformation South African nominate here. Experience. Nobody gets to re experience from a new perspective the same life. You are getting the opportunity. 100%. Second last question. Okay? On June 4, you didn't feel anything. When you lost election, you felt nothing. We have lost elections before. 14 and four. Election When you're unbothered by it. Yes. These have failed before. I think one of the greatest misconceptions people have is achievement achiever from one achievement to another. No. From one failure to another in between some achievement. Right. I was smiling. I was like, But what goes on in your head? Nothing. I just I'm just planning the next thing. Before the result? Done with a project, go to the next thing. No. Yeah. Before the result, what goes on in your head? Not only. Oh, yeah. I did that in '19 also when they were counting. And they said, So it's not as if I'm unaffected because I've trained myself only at loss. I'm unaffected even when we win. I love it. I never went and took my certificate of victory in '19, which was a historical political victory because the Indian National Congress sitting president has never lost in the history of this country. That too from their bastion. I mean, he's an unwinnable seat. And the first non congressperson and the first woman to ever complete five years there was not from the family, Gandhi family. So I knew the history I'd created, but I was like, The team which was working certificate. It's not as if I am you know, it's a mind frame to battle out, when I've lost something. I'm like that in Successfuls. I love it. I love it. Beyond a point, even in Kyunki, I think they kept giving every year best actor till I one day went on stage and I declared it only. And people are like, but generally, I mean, we are the most popular So by that default, it'll come to us. I said there are others who are doing genuinely good work. And I still remember, like, what did she say? But that's being so honest and nice. But it's true. That matters. True. I ask this to everybody who I enjoy conversation with is give me a feedback. How can I be better? Don't? No. Mad love? You're just fine. How are we just better? Success success. Why photographer exhibition photographs Because they are the ones who feel that nobody will have the time of day for them. Nice. I'll keep that. I'll keep that. I'll I'm still not happy with the with no feedback, but I get your point. I actually like it better. Everybody you meet is trying to change something in you. What we don't realize is as human beings, we are waiting for that one person who will accept us as we are. You're meeting Shruti Rani who's happy to meet you just as you are. There's nothing about you that needs to change. And that sentiment, there are two other people in this planet who will exhibit it towards you, your parents. True. Thank you. You're welcome. Thank you so much for this. Loved having you. Hello? Subscribe to this channel and subscribe to this channel and subscribe to this channel and you can subscribe to this channel and if you want to get a job done for a podcast and you can also get a better value and number three this episode is one conversation can change someone's life I'll see you next time until then keep figuring out.
