Attacks that happen. Twitter pay, book my show rating, IMDB rating. People spend a lot of money to pull people down. What's the core reading of Kalyan Singh? Courageous. Like a liar. Like he can stand alone. Rajneekhandra. He is huge. I mean, people of Tamil Nadu will go for his film regardless of anything. The film doesn't even matter. Ravaska Korkya? Phew. The nicest person I've met in my life. Not in the industry. In life. But I'll tell you something, Ranbir. At a very, very, very low phase of my life, I banged my head on the wall in Kashi. Literally, my crown chakra. And I don't know what happened, but my life changed after that. Oh, wow. Attractive personality trait? Stability and dependability. It's someone you need to be able to make life decisions with. From a decision of where to live to a ventilator decision. That, I feel, is very, very important. My first one. Has someone ever dumped you? I haven't been dumped, but I have been cheated on. It was so difficult for me to understand because whoever I've dated before, I never ever felt like, okay, I wanna marry this person. Was your partner famous? I think fun conversation. I think so. Yeah. Genuine because you are very genuine. I think so am I. So life. Are you sure? We've never bumped into each other. No. No. Oh, great. Lovely to meet you. The same. The same. Process. He's a method podcaster. Yeah. Yeah. I feel genuine vibes podcast consume. Yeah. Absolutely. Honestly, I think, we all feel a bit of loneliness. And, definitely, I really feel like in the best and worst moments, So you just have to Wow. Learn to deal with that because in the lowest of lows and in the highest of highs, if you notice up, Hamisha because no one can feel that low or that high with you. They can feel a certain level of emotion with you, but no one can really feel what you're feeling, you know, when you're very low or very high as well. When you're very high as well. Yeah. I mean, see, I've noticed this. So my film has just released. I'm just telling you the feeling. You feel very adrenaline. You know, every stage you go to, people are screaming for you. They're They're cheering, you know, for you. People are, like, loving to give you attention at that point of time because you have a release coming up. So that point up until the release is a very high in your mind. You know? And then with the release, you sort of come back to normal. And then if it's good, it maintains. If it's bad, the result, then you go lower. So it's the lows and highs I feel, especially as a public person, but especially as an actor because the world is open. Account PR games. I would love to because since the world has learned the word PR, the world has not learned to shut up. I completely agree with you. And I really feel like opinions It's just that you don't know them. Access here to, you know, tell you what they feel. And everyone has conflicting opinions. So it's extremely confusing as to what to listen to and what to not listen to. Yeah. You know, the opinions are great, but, you know. You know, I feel level. Mhmm. Level I think Yeah. PR associated skill media careers. Right. Right. For whatever reason PR skills. Absolutely. Reddit everyone's discussing PR games. Yeah. Reddit is a new world for me, guys. I recently discovered Reddit. It's, maybe worse than Twitter. Yeah. Identity Exactly. And I think there are certain people who are on Reddit also with other names. But, yeah, people are people. Gen z. Rohan, any quick Gen z opinions on Reddit and PR? I would love to know. Yeah. So people are very, aware about if the PR is happening or not. But Abhishe had said people are very easy to guess PR campaign and this is a natural campaign. And recently, we bought campaigns where it's maybe low. Yeah. Okay. But in a way, I feel that's a good thing. Now if people are able to catch that p k a genuine PR. I actually feel that's nice. Yeah. I I hope. I hope people are able to catch it. See, I think people are able to catch positive PR very easily. PR. But mask negative PR. Yes. I think fabricated media professionals. Absolutely. Absolutely. But audience negative. But you know something? Negative PR. There are so many attacks that happen. Even something like, book my show rating, IMDB rating, Twitter pay, with the media. You know? There is a certain section of paid reviews negativity. Then people spend a lot of money to pull people down. I feel sometimes you'll spend more money to pull people down than lift themselves up. Recently negative campaign had started. But we stopped it immediately because I was just like, dude, I'm gonna push myself in a good way. But if you do something negative, then I'm gonna do it right back. Powerful. It's a billionaire from a legacy billionaire family. Right. Self defense seeker from PR perspective. I agree with you. Great. But don't, you know, do something negative for someone else. That's again, your intention. That's your Karma. Uh-huh. Your own negative karma. I really feel that. But And, you know, I'm generally thinking media like But, eventually, I mean yeah. Unfortunately, I actually feel like media powerful other powerful and industry and media. We're all in the same boat eventually But telugu film industry But film industry simple or work oriented. Mhmm. Am I right in saying that? Yeah. I think you're 70% right. I think when it comes to actors, directors, filmmaking, production, I feel there's a lot of sincerity. There's a lot of passion. Rootedness, you know, cinema, and they really love shooting. You just go on shoot. Nobody's really bothered. I'm just gonna do this. No. Everybody is involved in the process, and everyone wants to do their best. So it's a very homely, chilled out, yet very productive environment. But I feel like, yeah, there's just a certain section of, again, this paid media. But there are genuine people as well, but very few. Yeah. Like, I was thinking I feel though type media professional. Inner child alive. Art career. I'm so surprised you spoke about inner child because I've been working on that a lot. Or over competitive securities. Absolutely. Mass scale negative PR. G. G. Shout out to Kartikarayan. Shout out to Varun Dhawan. Yeah. Shout out to Rohan. Maybe these two are people. I I have seen a lot of videos also. Influencers negative post. Oh, really? Yeah. This has become a new That's really bad. Yeah. And have you heard anything about Kartik Aryan lately? Mhmm. Or I know there was some controls. Right. Right. PR mechanism But and it's so horrible, I feel, because leave the money, leave the leave what people think. But that particular person. And actors are very, very sensitive. Emotional childlike I feel like mental health is really not good. You know? You feel attacked. Counterargument fame oriented career mental health Public personality, public property difference You know, you're answerable to your parents. You're answerable to your family. They have their circle of friends. It's, yeah, it's it's not nice, I feel. Yeah. Honestly, Who are the guys we named? Kartikar and Varun Dhamma. And and they're very genuine people. So I know both of them a little bit. I don't know them too well. And Varun is a very childlike person, very sweet, very encouraging. I love newcomers. And even Kartik, I think, has worked very hard, you know, to get to where he is. So why? Yeah. Please. And one of those things is kinda related to Varun Dhawan also. Okay. Okay? Energy. It's great energy. You have very nice energy. Thank you. I've done my healing today. So I think maybe that's reflecting. But I'll tell you something, Ranveer. Every single person tells me this. So I'm into a lot of Reiki. I do a lot of That's what it is. Meditation, and I feel I'm very spiritually connected. You know? Wow. I mean, it's just one of the things, but this is the most important and strongest relationship, I think, in my life. Calm, positive, sweet. Sweet I wanna become a bit more, you know, just that you know your shit. I'm I'm tired of being sweet now. Mhmm. But, yeah, calm and positive. These two things I get the most. Actually, hair care routine or skin care routine. But Yeah. I I completely agree with you. In fact, many Reiki start at a very, very, very, low phase of my life personally, not professionally. Professionally, everything was very high at that point of time. 2016. Very recently. Okay. 2018, I think spiritually Oh, wow. I banged my head on the wall by literally, my crown chakra. And I don't know what happened, but my life changed after that in Kashi. Wow. So that was something that really opened up the world of spirituality, God's self connection and introspection, all of that magic, you know, all of these things. So that happened, but our Reiki is a very recent thing in my life. Personally low phase. May I didn't have an option but to just work on myself, you know, work on my inner child and work on feeling positive, being positive. And I'm the kind of person I know I'm feeling this way. I will solve it. I will do whatever it takes to make myself feel better, to make myself feel happy, to bring my own vibration up, I will not accept defeat ever in life. Uh-huh. But, really, I mean, that's it takes a lot of energy, I think, to do that. But I do it, and I constantly do it. Oh, thank you. Actually, thanks for reaching out, just when I had gotten back into my house Yeah. Last year Yeah. I was frazzled. Just Hill. Hill. Hill. Or my bus. Many workout gears. Bus apartment. Or both come celebs reach out overtime lots reached out. Yeah. But you are maybe the first or second person who reached out when I came back home. Or you know, just believe in the future. Yeah. So thank you for the digital healing. Thank you, Ranveer. And, no, about Ranveer, about you, I have to say I have been podcast because I feel like you're so genuine. And, you talk about topics that people don't dare to. You know, you have, in a way, encouraged a whole generation to kind of be spiritual, to believe and to make those kind of things cool again. You know? And I feel like that's really, really important. Thank you. You can't negate that. I mean, what you've done is a million times more. You know, but it's your intention and your heart is you have a beautiful heart. Thanks. So you should be loved for that. Thank thank you so much. Takes one to know one. Thank you. Thanks. What I definitely will say is, empathy message. I don't wanna get into details of that because that's private life. But empathy and actually emotional. Okay. There here's another media celebrity professional who understands the trials and is reaching out with empathy, thank you. Thank you. You just understood my prediction. Yeah. I I can't even imagine what that phase would have been like for you. But you know what? I think there are certain times in life where you just have to learn a lot of lessons. Mhmm. You know, you have to balance out certain karmas in life. And it was just one of those things. And you've come out bigger, better, stronger. Or I think people have seen that something like that can't phase you out, you know, because of all the good that you've done. Thank you. Thank you. Plus bank. No. Thank you. Thank you. Discuss Genuinely. Can I can I recommend, like, one possible starting point? Hair care routines I wouldn't mind. Hair care routine? Honestly, my hair care routine is nothing. Coconut oil because my hair normally is very straight and very flat. So the flat thing is my problem, but I think hair is one thing genetically. My mother has better hair than me. Oh, really? So does my sister. Better hair care also. So does my sister. Styling has become a bit different. But in school, I remember seniors used to come and touch my hair and be like, oh my god. Your hair is so soft. So I think hair is just minimum care. I don't believe in hair spas, masks. I'm very old school like that. Honestly, healing real listeners. Thank you. So I feel skin care, hair care, voice care routine is taking care of itself. Yeah, Ranveer. I just feel like life important That is intention. Intention You know, I'm an actor. Actor Is it for the money? Is it for the fame? And I've asked myself these questions. I've journaled it out. And it's not that. Even if I got paid nothing, even if I got no fame with this profession, I would still love to do it because that the child there is this child inside me that was just obsessed with becoming an actress, not knowing the perks or the negative things that come with it. But intention. Always go to intention. Just, release and it's doing very well. Hamara opening I'm gonna talk numbers. I hope that's okay. Go for it. Go for it. But why not? Right? So Hamara opening to a 112 crores. That is day one when premieres and all were canceled, but still, you know, he got to he got those figures. Or, the film is in the theaters. It's doing great. Weekend number will be 200 plus. So I'm feeling really happy. I'm feeling grateful. But somewhere picture release that whole day is like a roller coaster. Because every review you see, every tweet you see, every Instagram thing you see, somewhere it it affects you and you get confused. So I feel again, you have to just go back to your intention. You have to go back to yourself. It's up to people what they think. Disconnect which I'm learning to do. But, Twitter delete, which I I really thought of this. I thought of tweeting, you guys don't deserve me. I'm doing Twitter. Dude, I I feel at sometimes I feel like they don't deserve someone genuine, who's not faking it. And I don't believe in this thing of fake it till you make it. Yeah. Yeah. I don't believe I feel you can't fake it till you make it. Yeah. You know, and in saying, I agree. You can't fake it till you make it. But back to paid PR. Fake projection. Even subscribers. Absolutely. Views, comments, everything. Yeah. Like, we you know, some like, internally, we've been running this for ten years. I make internal call. We will never buy followers or something. Too. But, then you see the whole industry doing it. Yeah. And then you just question is it true that good guys finish last? And we this is my biggest existential crisis. Right? Life. You know, do good things happen to good people. I I guess, I completely agree with you. And, famous quote. I can't remember who said this. But it goes like, if you try saying the truth, people will call you, Muffat, but you must say the truth anyway. Yeah. Yeah. If you, feel like you've done wrong and apologize, people will blame you for the apology, but you must apologize anyway. Because in the end, it's not between you and people. Yeah. It's between you and God anyway. And this is something I live by. Everything I believe is between you and God, which is why you don't need to explain anything to anyone. Yeah. I I think divine justice attached to the PR conversation. Even little things like, I think time Reddit Twitter. It is it is karma. So watch out how all of you who are doing this, it will hit you. But it will because you're literally and you know what, Ranveer? People don't understand this producer. They don't understand producers have lost all their money, literally come on the streets because they have invested their house and everything. So they literally come on. So you're playing with people's careers. You're playing with their livelihoods. You're playing with their income. You're playing with their family. They're you're playing with their mental health. So and every person is responsible for that. Imperfection I I feel like what sorted out in? Sorted out who? I feel imperfection I cannot I have become incapable of, putting out my mood. If suppose I'm upset or I'm angry or I'm irritated or something has disturbed me, I've become incapable of expressing that. It's just become in my head, it's become like this thing of someone did this. Okay. It's it's gone to, like, lessons. Lesson. It's just gone to that. So it's good for others, but it's not good for me. You know? Because it just keeps getting piled up, and I don't know when it'll burst. I know at some point it will, which is why I journal to just get it out. But you know what? The trickiest part is even when I'm journaling, I am still ending the statement with a positive line. And I'm like, why am I not able to write what I'm feeling even to myself even when I know no one's gonna read it? You know, have I become so Private? Private. Yeah. Ultra positive. We are not able to accept that something is affecting me. Emotional. Uh-huh. Back to the loneliness where we started. Yeah. Mhmm. Mhmm. But because, see, as much as your family loves you and mine really supports me, you know, decisions. Maybe they it wasn't normal decisions. Acting try you know, to get a first film to maybe get married at a later age. All of these things are not normally accepted things, especially in a house like mine, but they've always understood me. But certain things they can't understand, and you wouldn't want to put that load on them either. No. It's it's fantastic here. It's fantastic. Honestly, like, Mhmm. Recording. Mhmm. Studio. Mhmm. Studio logo studio pick Thank you. How sweet. I mean, how sweet and how, divine, I would say. Thank you. Thank you for that. Don't don't know why and I feel That's my only request. 100%. No. But my good my everything good is always there, you know, for you. And, of course, the studio, I love it. Positive. And it really feels like pressure feel. There's zero pressure that I feel. There's zero judgment that I feel. Like, you know, honestly, collectively, I I know my guys also very well. We all want to give you something, but we don't know what to give you. Just give me love. Good good vibes. Just give me love. Okay. Uh-huh. That you have. Just love. Yeah. I'm always like, yeah, just love. Yeah. Love language? Very good question. Oh my god. My love language was words of affirmation, like, positive things. But I think love language here, action. Like, in my head, not just a man, but especially a man, is someone who does what he says he'll do. That is a man. So just that. Back up your words with action. If you're saying you're gonna do it, do it. Otherwise, don't say it. You know? Gifts I've learned this I've learned this one thing in Reiki. Emotion is energy in motion. Oh, wow. Wow. Even when you feel love for someone, right, it's moving energy. You feel it at a certain moment, and then it moves away. And then you feel something else. You can't take that particular emotion and base your whole life off of one emotion from someone else because emotion here. Energy in motion. Change. You know, Not interested anymore. Intention future husband podcast. Please. I don't have to indirectly say a lot of things, you know. It'll just be clear. Husband. Husband. I think, there are some great men in this world and, my father being one of them. But, yeah, there are some great wonderful men in this world, and I believe I don't know why, but I always have this image of a very nice, positive, calm, stable, dependable man next to me with lots of dogs, a few kids. Lots of dogs? Yeah. I love dogs. So lots of dogs. I do a lot of work for dogs as well, but we'll talk about that later. But, yeah, I I have this visual in my mind. Doesn't sound like anyone from my industry. Really? Yeah. Yeah. But I love dogs. Like, I have my ultimate NGO type of dreams are to do with dogs, which I'm already working on. I wish I can do it. But yeah. But yeah. So the answer is yes. I think at the right time. Right now, though, I I don't have anyone like that in my life. I feel industry to find a compatible person from the industry. Chaos, sir. Chaos. I feel like relationship. Somewhere I feel is that it's missing, not just in our industry, but in many places right now. Old school. Relationship. Just pure relationship with no other intentions and just love, acceptance. Yeah. I feel grandparents generation Uh-huh. My generation. Absolutely. Acceptance. Mhmm. It's they weren't chasing perfection. Partner perfect. You know? And there's no perfection. It was just acceptance. You know? It was literally like that. And that's what I feel love eventually is, you know. Yeah. And, you know, correct me if I'm wrong. I think we're roughly in the same age group. I think so. Yeah. Yeah. Arranged marriages but job. I agree. And grown up take on love. Yeah. Irrespective of who you date moments frustrate. That's about getting past the frustration. Absolutely. Or I feel arranged marriages. So I am someone who's open to arranged marriages as well later. Let's see. But I know it's it's shocking, but Gen z, what do you have to say about this? It's great. Can't connect. My name. It's great. Gen z is very extreme, sir. But, you know, I've noticed that. I've been hanging out with, like, these really young group of people nowadays. I never thought I would get along with them, but I'm actually Yeah. Yeah. I feel they're very sensitive. Yeah. What are strong personalities? You can always find a group which suits us. Yeah. I was surprised because I usually got along with older people. Yeah. But I was surprised to get along with, like, 23 year olds. And I'm like, I think Mainly, I give you the content also. Absolutely. At that age. Yeah. And they quickly learn like, we are talking as people in our thirties Yeah. Saying in our thirties. Yeah. A 22 year old watching this can gain that value at 22. And their EQ has become very high. Yeah. That's what I feel. It's become higher than some of the people I know of my age and even older than me. I feel like their EQ is actually very, very high. Yeah. Bio data Simple. Simple. But But No. I'm sharp. I'm smart but innocent, but not dumb. I'm not dumb. That is absolutely right. You know, I have become Ranveer. I have become so good with accounts. Genetics. Yeah. I've become very good with accounts. I was never good at accounts. Yeah. None of it. I mean, I have to not got paid for half the things that I've done. But suddenly accounts switch on. Okay? I've become too good at it. Inner superpower unlock over. Unlock over. Yeah. Nice. All about the money. Yeah. It's also I think Marwadi is definitely extremely good with money and all that. Like, those stereotypes look. Yeah. Stereotype You guys are really sorted out friends to have. Very nice friends. Yeah. Oh, really? Yeah. I didn't know this was a stereotype. Tell me but Maraudy community. That's why the community are so well in business also because integrity pays off in the law. Integrity. Yes. Absolutely. Integrity. Safe. You are safe. But, yeah, generally, Maybe. You know there's high integrity. Yeah. There's high integrity and somewhere, there's always, like, investment from a Marwadi brain if I have to think. Harchi's investment investments long term short term Same with friendships. Mhmm. You know, you always invest in friendships long long term money. Mhmm. Actual communication. Which are very important. I figured recently how important friendships are in life, and they really are. Even, Dhirubhai Ambani Mhmm. And Reliance generally, main company culture, they really take care of the people. It's the same knowledge. Long term businesses Yeah. Grow because of great, very deep relationships. I'll tell you one small story about my dad. So at his work, I I don't know why I remember that, but I think he was telling me this that in some meeting, he, some guy made some mistake and then he was a bit rude to him. Bit rude for him is normal. Normal And the next day, he went back, and he apologized to the same guy in front of everyone in the office. You know, that, you know, I'm really sorry yesterday. I should not have said that to you. So I think it's things like that, you know, where your respect grows in front of the people that you work with as well. So I think things like that are very important. The way you treat people Cultural thread of integrity. But Surprisingly. Really? What kind of a Marwadi? I have not gone to my roots. My parents have gone, but I, for some reason, didn't never got the opportunity Okay. To. Travel? Okay. Yeah. Normally. So I love going to, holiday. I love going to London. Okay. I don't know why, but I think Indians love London. Or or London. Culture entertainment. It's a little bit you feel nice also India Indian. Dishoom. Dishoom or tamarind? Yeah. Yeah. Tamarind is also very, very good. Gymkhana is also very good. Gymkhana is also very good. Iconic Indian restaurant. Yeah. So London or India, I love going to, like, these places, spiritual places. Dharmic travel. Dharmic travel. Nice. Yeah. A tangent share YouTube careers survive or grow reinvention. Right. Okay. It's like a muscle. You're always working at the back of your head. So our new thing is documentaries. Nice. And the easiest way for me to do documentaries travel about crazy. Right. And since I think the last two, three months, we've begun this new project. It's a documentary project. Anthony Bourdain style travel show creator. But the core of it is dharmic. Dharmic. Because it may Like, is is week witchcraft practitioner. Witchcraft is How interesting. Yeah. Darkly white wig. Global main temple? Orissa. Orissa has a lot of temples and everything. Yeah? Yeah. It's called a Chaucertyogini temple. It's a round temple which is open. Or the main idol, it's an idol of something called Mahamaya. Mahamaya. Mahamaya is the same entity that every Wiccan prays to, which is mother nature. Same as mother nature. Yeah. Yeah. I'm like, yeah. There's so much left to explore in India. I think in India, there's so much left to explore. There's so much left to I think even for people to know that these places exist, you know, the smallest of the smallest places have the most powerful temple, some of them. Yeah. You know? Locals they'll tell you, you know, this place is very, very powerful. Traveled to place. That's so true. I get why. Yeah. Yeah. Like, once you go there, you get why completely. Yeah. When we were growing up, we weren't told about, like, all these places. True. True. Singapore. Singapore. USA. Dubai. Singapore. USA. USA. Yeah. Now suddenly Gen Z has discovered. I just saw this video. I I don't know if if it was an AI video or a normal video, but they were like these kids, Gen Z kids, doing a bhajan party. Uh-huh. But without alcohol, obviously. But it was a bhajan party, and I was like, someone invite me to this, please. You wanna love bhajan jam? I would love to do that. I said, sir. How exist? Are you in Bombay often? No. Not really. Okay. Okay. Great question. So I'm from Bangalore. I shifted to Bombay. Maybe when I wanted to get into films to try to become an actor auditions. I was here for a year. In that one year and, I stayed here for two years before COVID went back to Bangalore. After COVID shifted to Hyderabad, so now I'm in Hyderabad. Pan India beauty. Pan India. Pan India. So it's it's a bit complicated. Pan India life. Pan India life. Sorry. It it kind of meme, kind of joke, kind of compliment from the whole team. Right. Guest research what can be opened. Uh-huh. Core thought associated advanced chatbot Hey, AI. Please create me an Indian beauty. It'll create something like. How sweet. AI generated but actually, it's as a compliment. Listen. I feel the same way. Sometimes when I look at my own pictures, I'm like, this is looking like AI. Ranveer, what is wrong with me? No. It's a good thing. Is it? Yeah. Yeah. Definitely, I'm orders. Like, they broke. Because I'm even I feel this. Maybe maybe it's like it's catching aura or something. I don't know. It's something with the face or I I don't know what it is, but I feel this as well. It's a compliment. Then great. Thank you. Yeah. Yeah. Sorry. I had to just get that out of my head. Because because random tangents, obviously, I think robot. Robot. Yeah. Yeah. But the robots are going to become a thing now. Already, West I'm bored. Jetsons Jetsons. Flintstones. Flintstones, Stone Age Jetsons future. Oh, great. Flying. Oh, nice. Tires. It's like a business I think flying cars science or tech podcast career It's crazy. I think even, like, actors will not have to act. No? Everything will be AI. That's what everyone we all talk about all the time. Black Mirror episode. I've seen that. I've seen that. But just say America type fruit or vegetables organic vegetables or inorganic. AI generated content of any kind is going to be treated as inorganic. Inorganic. And then organic will have more value. Yeah. Human nuances, expressions A 100%. I completely agree with you, but. Mhmm. Hannah? Excited or scared of the future? Excited. Excited. Excited. Because, see, not like I can control it. Rather be excited for it. Would you want to have children in this world? See, I have always wanted to have children. I think as a child, I've always wanted to have children. Seriously. Like, I always thought that, you know, I will adopt a kid like how Shushmita said. That memory is very deeply imprinted in my mind, but, no, I want to have kids. Raise extra time, attention, which also might not be good actually. But then how will they adapt to this world? Oh, okay. So I'll have to keep them in reality in some way. But strong. Okay. But, no, I I want to have kids. Lots of kids. Lots of kids. Lots of kids. I think I've always been a mother. So my sister is seven years younger than me, and, my parents didn't plan on, like, having a second child. They were like, okay. Got full stop. But I remember writing letters. I want a baby sister and keeping it in the pooja room every day. And, manifest. Yeah. And I literally thought that God has sent me, you know, my sister. So I was literally like her mother As, like, a seven, eight year old kid, I used to take care of her so much. And even today, we don't fight. Our age gap is too much, but she's like my baby. You know? I don't see her like my sister. So I've all I have a lot of that motherly instinct, feeling. Elder sibling romance. I I really have that in me. So even in a group of friends, I end up becoming the caretaker. Like, I just make sure everybody's safe and everybody's, you know, good. Friends famous person I think very normally. One is a fun group that, you know, we just hang out. We go I I haven't had alcohol in the last six years. Nice. So, that part of my life is kind of done. But, I mean yeah. So I have a friend group, like, a chill group that I hang out with sometimes. But I have, like, certain friends who've been my friends for, like, twenty, twenty two years. So we meet more for, like, coffees and green tea and stuff like that. And we really have you know, we speak a lot. We're in touch. But we don't share much of our work stuff, so we talk about everything other than work. Why did you stop drinking? I don't know why, but at some point, you know, I just started feeling not good when I drank alcohol. I started feeling a little bit of anxiety. I did not enjoy it. I started feeling panicky. And then I'm like, okay. So I'm not liking this. My body is not accepting it. It's, yeah, it's rejecting it almost. So I was like stop. So no alcohol, no partying, clubbing. I mean, I like to hang out with people, but there's just no alcohol involved with me. They can drink. But Like, the millennials, the same people who are going to clubs and partying when they were 18 or 19 are going for kirtans and meditation classes. Drinking when I was 14. Oh, wow. I mean, not started drinking. Like, I I've had alcohol and all when I was 14. So school. School, going out. Rebelliousness. It was fun at that. And at that point of time in school, college, it it was fun. I used to enjoy myself, you know, when I was drinking. But it point started becoming a panic. We have a nice phase of partying for ten years until we realize, okay. Time to grow up. Let's grow up. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And I see the same pattern a lot. Type millennials chill. Oh, great. So you've also stopped drinking. Hard partying career. But at this point I can imagine. Green tea party. Absolutely. Yeah. Green tea, a good episode of friends, talking to your friends, you know, sleeping at night, waking up early, going for a walk. Yeah. This is life and this is fun. Yeah. Yeah. Hannah? Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I feel at least group everyone's going back to what they enjoyed as kids. I think so. And that's different for different people. Yeah. Anyway, but, friends for some people. Like, for me, it's become a lot of I've gotten back into football and PlayStation. It sounds immature. How nice. But my balance. Nobody is mature. I think it's great. Even to all of your senses. It's like even people who race, they practice so much of that Yeah. Thing now. What what is that called? Woah. I I think it's great. PUBG lockdown. PUBG. It was so much fun. You know, I was like, this is so much fun. Yeah. We're talking to random people. It's like, great. Were you good at PUBG? I think I was good. Yeah. I'm I'm good at games whenever I play. Yeah. Yes, sir. So basically school. Oh, great. Lovely. I love talking about my school. It was a very different kind of school. Christ? Christ was not a good experience for me. It's a great college, but yeah. So my school, we didn't have exams till the seventh, eighth standard. Exams how many, projects were given. But I still wrote my tenth ICSE. 88. So, no exams given projects. We had so much of sport, so much of extracurriculars. So you're constantly on stage, speaking on stage, or dancing, or performing, or something or the other. And, we had every sport possible, swimming, skating, football, cricket, badminton, sculpture, yoga. I'm a yoga interstate winner also. So was now I'm not that flexible. But, yeah. So we had every sport possible, and girls and guys used to play the same sports. Guys used to do sculpture as well, and girls used to play cricket and hockey and football as well. You know? So my school is the best. Was What school, ma'am? It was called Vidya Shilp Academy. Told about change in Bangalore. Vidya Shilp Academy. Vidya Shilp Academy. Lovely school. So extracurriculars focused always. Or even study we used to understand it because there was no concept of mugging up and writing. Because you had to create a project, so you had to understand what you're studying. Civics. So we had to make two political parties. We really had to do that, you know, so you understand every step of how it functions. Like deep understanding yourself. Yeah. So no exams. Up front bench or back bench? Back. Back. Yeah. Like, I can tell it's some evolution that's wrong. Yeah. I think so. Yeah. Back but I've always been a very, sweet girl. Like, I've been naughty, but very sweet. Okay. Because my parents were always like, they can call us to school. It's okay. But don't do anything bad. You can be naughty, but you can't be bad. Uh-huh. Okay. You know, that kind of k. Stupidity. Copy test. That's the real test. But I certainly believe there is a right and there is a wrong. You know? Copying unethical. That is fine. It's a small thing. See, copy, copy. Sometimes you help your friends also by showing them. That's how I look at it. Correct. So so what? Correct. It's it's great. It's friendship. It's it's not bad. These things are not counted. Engineering college exam hall. Every year I message him saying thank you because of you and my YouTube career. Really? So you have a lot of gratitude inside you. That's great. Badani. Or you're welcome I really feel because of that guy. How sweet. No. It's good to give credit. I think that's for me. And that shows how nice you are, you know, that you have so much of gratitude. I feel weak phases or strong phases. 100 graph. Yeah. You're into astrology? I mean, I am. I believe in astrology. I used to wear a couple of rings and all which I took all of them out. So that I stopped doing. You know your own chart? I know my chart. You have strong Saturn? I have a you are so good. So I have a very, very strong Saturn, a very strong exalted volcano, Jupiter, and, Rahu. Very, very strong Rahu. Rahu 10. Saturn, Rahu or Jupiter six something. Mhmm. So you also have something like that? Learning it. Learning the energies. But I I think it's like a media professional thing to have a strong Rahu. Rahu, I I have heard. Rahu recently someone told me that. You know villainous but Spiderman movie villain and mysterious. Yeah. Yeah. Mysterio illusions to use to fight spider one. Rahu is that ability. The ability to create illusion. Illusion. Which is why media careers are good for strong. Maya. Yeah. I mean, it's related to our work. It is. Absolutely. And digital, they say, is completely related to Rahu. Yeah. But I feel you know what? Even Reiki. Sorry. I'm going back to Reiki. But we have seven bodies. The one is our actual body. Then the seventh layer of the body is the astronom astronomical body. So that's Astro? Astral body. So that's connected to the planets. So somewhere, the planets, the position, and everything impacts you. Mhmm. Yeah. Like, it's it's a science. Yeah, ma'am. You know? You know, members astrology. It's a very deep subject. Yeah. If It's not something one should just discount saying that this can't have an impact. Yeah. Millionaires don't believe in astrology, but billionaires do. That's right. Community and family. You know what the surprising thing is? In my house, I believe in astrology the most Oh, really? Compared to my parents and all. My dad is like, beta, beyond all this, there's God. So don't worry too much. Mhmm. And I'm like, yeah. I know that. And I agree with him. Astrology point You know? Because that's when you're born. But even after that, you have your karmas now. Okay. Someone has one chat. That person is a horrible person. So that'll also affect it. Yeah. If a person is a lovely human being, that'll also affect it. Christopher Nolan fan. Mhmm. You like Christopher Nolan? Yeah. The person to be a fan of. Nolan Batman series dialogue. Mhmm. Key, ethics It's not about who you are underneath, but it's your actions that define you. Absolutely. Job. Yeah. Define Yeah. And even if you see other Gita I've read many versions of the Gita, and understanding lord Krishna is not that easy. Because sometimes you feel like, why would he make this decision? Like, why would he say this is right? Concept So I think, again, right and wrong also is a very, very deep analysis. Like, complex media world Yeah. Or I love reading the because I I learn something new. For example, lesson for me is Same. That is the biggest, biggest lesson because it is not in your hands. You can only do your best with a good intention, with a clean heart, and just give your best. Work hard. I believe a lot in hard work, Shani. Yeah. Yeah. You have to. So You know? So, hard work people have so much goodwill for you. Yeah. And that's something I've started to realize very recently that right now, my image or my personality, especially in my industry, which is Telugu Majali, has gone beyond my films in terms of whether the film is done well or not well. It's gone beyond that to my goodwill, you know, which slowly everybody is talking about, everybody is seeing, including the audience. So I think, eventually, that is your. You know? Your goodwill is your. Deathbed but Absolutely. I completely agree with you. Yeah. Maximum. You know? And even if nobody is there, you know that many of my life. I've never harmed anyone. I've done my best. So interesting. Yeah? Yeah. Thank you. I think so because my thoughts keep me occupied a lot. So interesting I'm thinking red flag. You want me to tell you? Yeah. My red flag is possessiveness. Oh, nice. At least was. Maybe, I don't know. Maybe that's one more lesson in life for me, something that I'm working on working on my inner child like I told you. Inner child is actually very, very interesting to work on and very important. I don't know why I'm working on it so late in my life. Anxious attachment style? Maybe, anxious expectation attachment I think yeah. I think expectations partner Again, that right and wrong. Again, that right and wrong thing. You know, that you give what you get. Obviously, the other person will do it. Why would that person do it? You know? So I think it's it's not anxious or clingy. It's more of how would I say it? It's more of moral, if that makes sense. Yeah. I'm curious. You don't have to I'm not asking all the names. No names of my name, Nataani. Best relationship. My first one. School. Really? I think that was my best relationship. The most green flagged flag guy that I have dated was in my school. He's my neighbor now, but he's like my brother now. So that's not something. That's not comforting. That's not comforting. But partner sibling energy. But I actually agree with you. Because you become more like best friends Your family. Yeah. And you become so comfortable. But why why wouldn't you go on a date with your neighbor? Because he's not asked you out. No. No. He comes up and says that, hey, Nidi. Let's just explore it from a adult perspective now. As in, like, let's explore from a mature perspective now. Right now, I I don't think I would be able to connect with him. I feel like mentally, emotionally, It's really changed a lot for me to connect with 99% of Her young without understanding this. Yeah. Fame key experience. And you know something recently itself, I was thinking about this. Sometimes I think about this difficult career I I don't regret it. Okay? Because I love my job. But by my job, I mean, I love going to set. I love acting. I love talking to my director, figuring out what to do, doing it. My director saying it's good or it's bad. If he says it's good, I'm super happy that day. And I feel like a little child, you know, who's gotten that five star as a gift, and I love that. That is my job. But the other parts of my job, I don't love that. Like, I don't love the, judgment. I don't love the games. I don't love the politics. But, unfortunately, it's all a part of the same game. And somewhere, I'm not made for that game. I am realizing that more with time. But, you know, the most most interesting thing that was an eye opener for me was so I worked with Prabhas now, and he is exactly like this. Childlike. No games. No politics. No, fakeness. None of that. And so I used to always think that will I ever make it big? Because being this soft and being this sweet and nice and oh, it's okay. Great. Yeah. Okay. Done. Being like that, how will I make it very big? But after I met him and worked with him is when I realized he is even more childlike than me. He is even more soft and sweet and genuine and all of that than me. And if he can be today India's biggest superstar, I feel he is. So if he can be that, then maybe being like that is better. Like, the reason I'm valuing what you're saying is perspective accurate. I it's like I meet someone and for some reason, I feel like I can feel their core. Like, I can just feel it. Pure. Pure. White heart emoji. He is a very, very, very he's a lovely human being. Actor, once you meet him, you'll forget the fact that he's an actor. You'll forget the fact that he's been working in this industry for the last twenty, twenty five years. He's not like that. He's not a commercial guy. He's not he doesn't have, like, PR teams. He doesn't have, you know, all this politics that goes on. He's very simple. Mhmm. And he is so it's like meeting, like, a five year old baby, you know, meeting him. But have intentions and he's so excited about films, filmmaking. So I have, like, newfound respect for him after working with him. The nicest person I've met in my life, not in the industry, in life. Yeah. That's him. I remember after. Yeah. I remember after. Yeah. Same. And I speak for many other Indians. Same. Yeah. I started reading up about Prabhas. Mhmm. Career. Yes. Yeah. Life. Yeah. Or career. Yeah. Yeah. But Absolutely. And now we're having these conversations about it. But Yeah. Suffer. That's the way. Absolutely. And there was five years of shooting just for that film. Physically, very, very, very taxing. And I think not doing any other films or what people see is one thing, but the internal journey also of an actor is a whole other story. Only when you talk to them, you'll understand what they go through at that point of time. And the biggest thing is when Bahubali released the first day, there was flop talk. They were like, it's a disaster. Why? It took people a while for them to accept the film, to understand it, and to celebrate it like the way they did, but judgment disaster. So imagine sacrificing everything, waking up the next morning, and seeing that, okay, it's all gone for a waste. And then it picks up. So just imagine the roller coaster for that person mentally. You know, those forty eight hours or those four days. It's a it's a roller coaster. Right? Do you think he's also detached from the results? I think he is very detached from the results, and I am slowly seeing that his way is the right way, you know, because he does his job. He gives his best. I feel you took career anxiety. Gen z score. I feel it all. All of us feel. The only way to handle that is the core lesson. Oh. Just give your efforts a 100%. Don't care about it too. That's it. Because Harchi's time. And I've realized this. When is the right time, you don't do anything, and everything works out for you. Yeah. But when it is a wrong time, Ranveer, you can get heaven and earth together, and nothing will work out. Yeah. It's time. You know? And even in saying that, even in the wrong times when you give even more effort Yeah. I feel on some level, the effort is registered somewhere. It is. I agree with you. But result, it doesn't have to come in that. But nothing goes for waste. Good and bad. Bringing little philosophy into this. Please do. You know, there's this quote that goes, we're not human beings having a spiritual experience, but spiritual beings having a human experience. Interesting. When Yeah. On a human level, I know this thing about just putting in efforts and not thinking about the results. Very tough. It can be tough to sustain. Yeah. Then you have to turn to philosophy. Mhmm. Then that gets you through. That just know that you're you're temporarily. Like, I've had so many spiritual people on the show where Yeah. They've said things like at the point of death up or heaven or astral But at the moment of death human experience Yeah. True. And the thing is we will never know this. Answers You know, when I was younger, when I was like, I think Saturn period. Saturn. That that is a point where I became a vegetarian. I used to be a non vegetarian, randomly, like a eight year old kid just deciding to become vegetarian. Also, that has something to do with the Dalai Lama, but I'll I'll tell you that. So his sister used to live in my old building. Oh, wow. The Dalai Lama assistant, she used to give me a chocolate every day, that orange candy with a transparent wrapper. Every day, like, all the kids used to be playing, and she used to call me and she used to give me that every single day. And in that period, I think a lot of things happened in my life. I suddenly started to become very mature in my thinking. I was thinking like a 30 year old at the age of eight. You know, I started having exist existential crisis questions. Like, what is the point of living if one day I'm gonna die? What is the point? You know? I mean, for a eight year old kid to think that is not really normal, that turning vegetarian, a lot of things. So what was I talking about? I completely went off track. Saturn, ma'am. Saturn. So because that came in my childhood, I think these thought this whole thought process, way of life, accepting hard work, accepting these kind of concepts started very, very early on in my life. So Saturn, number eight, all of these things have really taught me. What did you get up? August 17. Eight eight. Wow. There's, like, a lot of Saturn. A lot. Are you bogged down by it? No. I think Saturn has taught me the most important and most beautiful lessons very early on in my life where I didn't have to wait for my thirties or forties to learn them. And at a very, very young age, I saw the reality of people, the just reality. You know? How people behave when you're you have a good Friday, how people behave when you have a bad Friday. So I I think I've seen all of that now. Would you like to be born again? I I wouldn't wanna be born again. No? No. I'm I'm trying my best to make this my last life. If what we learn as Hindu kids is true, which I think it is. I also feel it is somewhere. I feel you can attain moksha nirvana, whatever it is. I think you can. And, actually, maybe not. I used to be very, very scared of death when I was younger. I was, like, petrified of it because of that existential thing. Right? Then what's the point? Why am I working so hard? Why am I here? Why am I talking to anybody? One day, I'm gonna be gone. Then what? Yeah. What will happen after that? You know, we were speaking with Rajeshi Nandy. So I've done so many episodes of this. Yeah. It always feels like reading a new book. Yeah. Because he's got that kind of knowledge, and he channelizes something. Great. I've seen your podcast with him, and that man has something special in him. He mentioned a word in one of the first episodes that's related to what we're talking about. I think the word is momu so if I'm not mistaken momu or momu. Mhmm. Momu. It basically means a soul that gets so tired of all these material games Yeah. That it cries out to the divine saying that please just take me away from this whole material world. Yeah. And that's when your real ferocious spiritual journey starts. Mhmm. So I think fame, riches, everything is just to push you to that point of becoming a momos. Probably. Because then you feel like it. Yeah. There's no money and no fame that can actually feel nice. Yeah. I think after point, that's what happens. Right? Like, it's like when a person is not maybe rich, they wanna earn. They know the importance of money. You wanna earn, earn, earn. But after a certain point, how much ever money you have post that one mark of money, it doesn't matter. Yeah. Because your lifestyle is the same. Your expenses, everything is the same. It's the same thing with fame, I think. Related. I'm sorry I interrupted you. That's okay. Sorry. And I'm I'm I'm not talking to you as a woman. I'm just talking to you as a spiritual being here. Yeah. But in your life as a woman, especially a famous woman Mhmm. Who looks the way you look. Mhmm. I'm sure. Okay? Yeah. Choose on a spiritual level. Level. I think, so first of all, I'll just give you context. Which is why seriously, school may also I was I was always a hero in my head, which is why I think my behavior, my thought process about myself has never changed. Oh, Abi, I'm good. In my head, I was always good. If you see it, good. If you don't see it, your loss. I've always had that kind of a thinking which is whatever. But, yeah, It's good. So I've always thought that attention I think and, I feel off. I think that's the first thing that puts me off. But going any day call they can. I can't. I really can't, handle, you know, people who show off because I don't know. It doesn't sit well with me. I feel like plus gratitude. You got lucky. We all got lucky. Attractive personality trait sincerity. Authenticity. Authenticity. Sincerity. I would say, for me, it would be stability and dependability. Mhmm. I think that's something that would really attract me to a person, and a good hearted human would instantly attract me. You know? So Actually, basically means you'll need to live with that person in the same room for hundred years of your life. Yeah. So it's about the silence. It's about being calm. And I always think with your partner, it's someone you need to be able to make life decisions with. Like, from the smallest to the biggest of from a decision of where to live to a ventilator decision. Decision with that one person you have to make. So are you able to decide anything with that person? You know, is it possible to talk to this person? Is it possible for this person to understand things from your perspective as well? That, I feel, is very, very important. Can I tell you a very random Daniel? Mhmm. But it's related to human relationships. May I actually, Shivji. Shivji is my I love Hanumanji. Wallpaper Uh-huh. You can just show it like that. Outside is Hanumanji. This has been my wallpaper for, like, fifteen years now. Oh, wow. I've not even changed the colors, photo, nothing. Look to your left. Oh, Hanumanji is right here. Yeah. But, you know, I'll I'll tell you one more story about Hanumanji. And inside is Shivji. Oh, wow. Poetic. Poetic. But Hanuman ji, I think before I get on any important stage, I always say jai Hanuman in my mind. Before I get on any place where I'm a bit nervous, I just say jai Hanuman and I'm good. Hanuman Chalisa is always with me because I'm very petrified of, like, ghosts. That's I think my biggest fear in life is what if I hear something or what if I see something? You know, I'll look at a heart attack. I can't handle it. So Hanuman Chalisa is always with me. I say the Hanuman Chalisa every day. I go to the Hanuman Mandir very often, and, I love Hanumanji. I think Hanumanji has really literally saved me in so many situations. Even as an adult, a successful adult? Yes. A 100%. Yeah. And somehow every film that I'm doing has some connection with Hanumanji. Mhmm. Yeah. Like, the last director I worked with, his name is Maruti. There is some correction always with Harumanji with every film that I do. I I don't know what that is. Feel it saved you? I feel it has saved me. Right? Yeah. Harumanji has really saved me. Yeah. I think I would have been swimming in a pool of drugs and sadness if I didn't have my religion. I I can completely empathize with that. Yeah. Yeah. With how crazy our industry is. And you see so many drug infused stories and Absolutely. Infidelity and all these things. Well, religion is that anchor. They call it what they want. No. It is. You know what? Religion is not a bad word. I feel like people just take it in a, different context. In the West, no religion is like a battle, like, of modernism versus ancient thoughts. Yeah. The thing is, how do you explain what we feel as Sanath? We we look at it as a philosophy. Yeah. Now the world calls Hinduism Sanath and Nam a religion. Mhmm. And they club it with what the context of the word religion is in the West. Yeah. But my question is, what is the problem with Sanatan Dharma? It, it talks about having a healthy lifestyle Yeah. Eating sattvic food, doing certain practices that are only good for you. Yeah. So physically, mentally, emotionally, it's good for you. So what's the problem in that? The thing is, I think when you're following it, and when you educate yourself with human intent, yeah, as a subject that just be a kind person to everyone. Yeah. We see it as a philosophy. Yeah. But the fact that we're discussing it makes it a religious oriented conversation, you know, and then lots of people switch off to it, which is fine. Yeah. Their souls are not supposed to find these conversations. I think so. It's eventually that their journey is just a different kind of journey. Their soul journey, I'm talking about. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I have to tell you the dark thing. Dark thing, please. Okay. So, I met a relative recently. He's a very good, high level doctor in The US. He said that there's a new field of medicine, which is a very ethically important field. Okay. But you need to listen, about it from a slightly mature perspective. Mhmm. It's called euthenology. Okay. K. So there's a word called euthanasia, which is kinda related to euthenology, but it's not euthanology. So euthanasia is when, if an animal is very unwell and you know you can't save the animal, then you'll put it to sleep Yeah. Like a dog or a cat. But the same rule applies to, human beings. If they cannot be saved, if they're in that vegetable state, sometimes they're given euthanasia to just be kinder with them. Okay. Okay. So that's what euthanasia is. That's where the word comes through. Now here's what euthanology is. So up till very recently, maybe pre COVID, the world treated older people in this manner. So if you fall ill as an older person, you go to a hospital. Say if you've got some very big illness, pneumonia. Yeah. You'll be given medicines to save you. But then when you recover, you're living a lower quality of life. Right. And you're probably living with suffering. Your lungs have got damaged. All that. Yeah. And then each disease damages you in its own way at that age. If you're 90 years old, if you're 95. Euthanology is a specialized branch of medicine where, doctors are trained to take away the suffering from an old person when they're highly unwell. Okay. So if you've got pneumonia and you go to a euthenologist, they'll give you medicines to reduce your pain, to make it easier, to make it more gentle. But they don't give you the medicines to fully save your life. Okay. So they don't treat it. They just reduce your pain, basically. To take away your suffering. To take away the suffering. Okay. Okay. Mhmm. And this is becoming a very common thing in the West. Right. But it's very difficult for Indian families currently to understand and accept this. Yeah. Yeah. Because everyone lives with their grandparents. Yeah. And grandparents are also usually of two types, but they're mostly of the second type. The first is the ones that want to hold on to family life, etcetera. But when you become old enough but once you hit a certain age and you're suffering that much just because of old age Yeah. Lots of people want to move into the next phase of their soul's journey. Right. Okay. Which is what Indian culture tells you about, etcetera. So it's a very difficult topic to explain euthanasia True. To Indian families. Yeah. But there's a new age protocol, which is that, the second generation. So if people our age have grandparents Mhmm. Our parents' generation who are, like, 50, 60, 70 now Right. Need to have a family meeting and figure if they want to apply a euthanologist in their own family. Exactly. I think that would be the best possible way to do that. No? But it's become a new age Yeah. Issue. And everyone our age, the dark reality is that we'll have to do this for our parents also at some point. Oh my god. I can't even imagine. Yeah. Yeah. That's that was the dark Yeah. Angle. Yeah. I don't remember how we reached eutherology. Mhmm. But it's something that I was thinking about from a very, like, ethical perspective. Because some people will look at this as an unethical thing. They look at this as murder, but it's not. Yeah. I mean, I don't think it is. I think it's I mean, see, these are all very, very subjective, you know, things to each person has a diff it's like god or love. You know? There's no one right or wrong thing. It's just everyone has a different definition or a different expectation of it, but I feel it's not wrong. I feel if you have, like, a meeting with your family and, the person decides how they would want to eventually end their life, I think it's in a way better. Yeah. I think, you know, the reason that meeting is required is because different personalities react differently to the concept of death. Yeah. Like, you'll have some uncle or aunt who's very sensitive to death and they they immediately look at this as a painful subject. True. And another person who looks as death as just the next stage. As a part of life. As a part of life. Ironically. Yeah. Yeah. I remember how we reached her. We reached her because we were talking about selecting a life partner. Mhmm. And especially for people in our age group Yeah. Our lifespans are likely gonna be longer than normal. Yes. So you're selecting someone for the next one twenty years of your life. One twenty. Oh, great. One twenty years of life. I mean, ideally. Great. If longevity really takes off. Yeah. But yeah. Like and you need to select a partner based on the possibility of hardcore conversations like eutherology. Yeah. I mean, first of all, selecting a partner is the most important decision of your life. Yeah. Because that one decision will either make you or break you. Yeah. You know, it'll give you a life full of happiness or a life full of loneliness, maybe. I don't know. But, and, also, it's the only decision full of loneliness. It could. You know? And also think about it, Ranveer. It's the only decision that you make. You don't choose your parents. I mean, maybe in some way you do, but to our mind, you know, you don't choose your parents. You don't choose your kids. You have to choose just that one person that you have to make the right choice. Let's go back to your green flags. Up single? Single. Single. But very ready for marriage if the right person comes? Yeah. I think yeah. I see myself married, like we've discussed, and maybe I need a little bit of time, maybe a couple of months. I would also like to get to know the person who I'm gonna get married to. So that also would take some time. You know, like test? Tests test where the lamp shade falls and, you know, she doesn't move. Test. It's like, you know, if you're, like, crossing the road and the other person is just not bothered about you. Mhmm. It's the smallest things. Have you seen this one video of, like, an old couple? The lady is bending down, and the old man is sitting, and he just puts his hand there so that she doesn't hit her head on the table. I think my tests are very like that because it's the micro moments in life, you know, that really tell you a person's character and whether that person will be there for you or not. Because when you're young and everything, everything is great. But, you know, you are gonna get older. You are gonna need help at some point of time. Your partner is gonna see you in the most ugly situations, phases, phases possible. So, yeah, it has to go beyond physicality and beyond, yeah, like, society and work and level and success and and status. It has to go beyond all of that. Yeah. I think energy Absolutely. Or potential family Yeah. You know, you're literally because you you are gonna have kids with that person, and you're literally gonna merge your souls together. So you have to be but you don't know how clean or dirty somebody's soul is, their past is, their intentions are. I think I mean, these are such big things, but it's not the it it's not even the small thing. It's the micro things. You know, the micro expressions, the micro intentions, the micro reactions. I think it's it's that. And a lot of it is to do with a person's parents. Because I really believe that, you are some of your parents in a way. I mean, I see that with myself as well and with most people around me. So I would really want to choose someone who has brought up their child really well. That's very, very important. You know, there's a quote that goes this is a quote I really love. Mhmm. It's a quote about marriage. It goes, that marriage is a lifelong process of healing each other's wounded inner child, but it's lifelong. That's actually true. And the stuff that got wounded in the childhood will heal in the late stages of your marriage Yeah. When you're 60, 70. Yeah. That you're signing up for 30 ish. Yeah. So choose a less wounded child. Wounded inner child. I don't like, I think everyone's wounded. Yeah. I agree with you. I mean, even people who've had the most beautiful childhoods and upbringing have wounds. You know, the thing is I based on what I've noticed, beautiful childhoods and upbringings often can wound you in your twenties and thirties. Yeah. So everyone gets wounded. You know, and the harsh truth is that your own life's victories are kind of happening because of those big complexes you carry. I actually agree with that as well. Somewhere the validation, you know, you need validation from so many people. Maybe. Ego required to keep going. The ego is coming from the wounds. Yeah. It is. It absolutely is. Loosely based on what I've read and learned, I feel like the I mean, I'm surprised. Like, you're really I I talk to a subject expert every day. Yeah. But you've really, really got this to the tee. When when you said this last thing of it's these wounds that actually make you maybe ambitious, a lot of positive things that come in your life are some way also because of this? Yeah. You know, like, what is drive at the end of this? Yeah. Like, why ambition? Yeah. Why? It's a chase to fill a room. Yeah. What's your own? Why have you Oh, god. Pushed so hard? I think with me, it's not about validation. It's really not about that. I feel I think it would just come down to love with me. Wanting love? Yeah. I feel like I maybe, I need to give myself a little bit more love, which is what I've figured out with the last few months of self work that I've been doing. I really need to give myself love, not the vanity care that I do. I do take good care of myself, but I mean self love, unconditional self love. You know, my mom's a gynecologist. Mhmm. And I was talking to her about what pregnancy feels like as a mom, as Yeah. What does she under her pregnancy? Yeah. She says that, there are two things. One, any doctor of any kind has experienced the divine at play in their work. If you've worked for like twenty, thirty years, you know that there's some miracles that happen. Yeah. And childbirth is one of those biggest miracles. Yeah. The second thing she said is when there's an embryo in your womb, it could even be with a surrogate mother. Mhmm. The embryo releases stem cells into the woman's bloodstream Mhmm. And heals the woman in parts that she doesn't know about. Physically and emotionally. So nice. So pregnancy, shifts a lot, especially for the mom. For the dad, it's like a lot of responsibility and all. Yeah. But it's biological for the mom. I had I didn't know about this. Interesting. So it heals you in ways. Yeah. Probably on a deeper level than just ways. Yeah. Probably on a deeper level than just biological. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Energetic level. Soul level. Again, I was just sorry. I just had this conversation, like, twelve hours ago. Yeah. So that's why it's freshering. But how lovely. Because usually, you think of pregnancy as something that's very difficult for the mother. Right? Like, physically because of the hormonal changes and everything. But this is a beautiful way to look at that. So I'm just asking you as a woman. Mhmm. Do you look forward to being pregnant? Yes. I do. Because I'm clear that I want to have kids. How if I think of it, I think I would want it to be through me. I mean, it it's great that people are doing other procedures, IVFs, and that whole thing. I'm not very sure on the terms, but I think that's amazing as well. But I think I would want to have it, like, me. I know it'll be a journey, but You know, the like, as a man, when you're born in a male body, it's very hard to embrace it. Is it Ranveer? Tell me. To be born a male body? Yeah. Fantastic. How is it fantastic? Actually great. And the more you get to learn about girls' bodies, the more you figure that, oh, thank God. Like, it's girls' bodies are complex. They are complex. It's like a cocktail. Someone was telling me a guy's body is like a neat drink. Girl's body is like a cocktail. Yeah. You know? Yeah. It has a lot of hormones and a lot of these things. Yeah. I think a guy's, emotional body is way more messed up though. Okay. Interesting. Yeah. That's that's there for sure. Because I I think a girl's biological body has the ability to give life. Mhmm. Okay. So that's why it's a more complex system. Right. But for whatever reason, girls are able to, emotionally regulate way better than men. Mhmm. But, like, for example, as it's a early thirties, man, and I've spoken I know you know KL Rahul Yeah. From Bangalore. I keep talking to KL about this. That as you turn 30 as a guy and he's a sports person. Yeah. Absolutely. Yeah. You become very conscious of your body degrading. Mhmm. And that that affects you emotionally. It starts happening at like 28, 29. And then at 30, 31, some switch happens. This is why athletes kind of start trailing off. Mhmm. So I'd ask him that how are you dealing with this whole thing? He's like, it's there, but some it's something you have to handle psychologically. Psychologically. Yeah. And he's in one of the best phases of his career right now. Yeah. He is. Love Keal. Yeah. Me too. He's lovely. Yeah. I wanna talk about KL a little bit to you because it I'd seen him I'd seen both of you mention each other in interviews. Yeah. You'll know each other before fame. Yeah. So I exactly. I've known him before he became a cricketer. He's known me before I've become an actor from Bangalore. I mean, we want, like, really good friends, but we knew each other. And then we happened to meet in Bombay. And, it was just nice to see a familiar face. It was nice to know that, okay. Fine. I know someone here who's known me from before, who doesn't just know this version of me, but they know that I've always been like this, and I'm trying to figure my way out. Yeah. And I'm sure it was the same for him. Mhmm. And I'm so proud of him. I think he's really it's very, very difficult to make it. No. Both of you are very poised people. Bangalore, maybe? Yeah. It's Bangalore energy. I don't know. Rahul Dravid energy. In Rahul Dravid. Everyone's Rahul Dravid. In Bangalore, everyone loves Rahul Dravid. Rahul Dravid is, like, loved by everyone. Yeah. Nikhil Dravid, same category. Nikhil Dravid. Speakers. Yeah. And I think Bando people just have this little bit of a chilled out energy Yeah. Where they're ambitious, but they're not desperate in any way. I think that nonjudging. Yeah. It that just comes across. Yeah. Back to some intense topic we were speaking of. Male like, after the age of 30, you know, you start to That's what Yeah. The trials of having a male body are like. And I've had Interesting. I didn't know that. Andrologists on the show. Guys have a really tough time in their old age. Like there's two, three issues that come up. Is it the hormonal? Yeah. It's hormones, prostate. Yeah. And you know, you, when you're a teenager, your hormones are through the roof. Yeah. And your body's like a muscle building machine. Yeah. Recovery is as it speak. Yeah. You're able to digest food and put on, like, muscle strength very quickly. Yeah. And you see a degradation of that in your early thirties. It's the reverse. So mentally, it's difficult to accept. Yeah. It's a very deep form of humbling that happens. Mhmm. Like you you start it really shifts your perspective. And parallelly, you see your career becoming easier in your thirties. Right. So it's it really makes you read align a lot of stuff. Yeah. But that's the only challenge that I have encountered in thirty two years of biological life. Yeah. Yeah. Girls, from the time you get periods Yeah. Till the time you have pregnancy, after that, it's always like some Menopause. Yeah. Menopause. Something or the other. No. I feel like with women, I actually feel like you're at your peak from, like, '28, '29. I feel like you look your best. You feel your best. Your decisions are very, much better than what they used to be. You feel emotionally much more stronger. You come into your own as a person. I feel by, like, 28. And somewhere you're not scared, you know, at that age to, like, piss people off or rub them the wrong way. Like, you're just like, this is what I feel and this is how I think. And for me, this is what it is. You start becoming very clear. You know? Every girl I age is thinking about either pregnancy, egg freezing. I mean, yeah, my mom and I have had that conversation as well, you know, about egg freezing. I think it's a great idea. It's a great option. And, you know, Ranveer, the thing is with women, I feel like the hormones and everything is one thing. Okay. You can deal with that. But the most complicated thing is the age where you're peaking in your career and the age to get married and have babies is like intertwining. It's it's the same age. And then you reach a point where it's very confusing. You know, you're like, okay. Because it's not like you can just have a you need to have the baby. You need to take care of it. And to, avoid a deeply wounded inner child of your child, you need to be there for your child. You know, it's so important. I mean high EQ speaking. Yeah. Yeah. Because the more I'm learning about inner child, I'm learning about how important those first six to eight years of life are, and everything is formed, you know, within that, age. So my mom is calling me. I haven't spoken to her in three days. She's gonna yell at me when I pick up. But, interesting timing, no, for her to call me now. But, anyway so right? But, yeah, that those first six to eight years are so important. You either seem unwounded or highly healed? Highly healed, I think it would be. Unwounded, I don't I've had lovely but, you know, I think somewhere I've always like I told you, I think this whole saturn thing coming in my childhood has somewhere made me become very mature at a very young age. So I feel like I've never been very, very childlike. That very childish thing has never really been there. I'm also the older sibling. So I've always been very responsible, very correct, very calm, poised, composed, strong. Dumped you? Dumped. I mean, no. I I haven't been dumped, but I have been cheated on. If that's counted as dumped indirectly, that's dumped. So, yeah, I have been cheated on. Was your partner famous? No. That was before, the Before your fame. Before my fame. Cheated on. Yeah. I got cheated on. As a teenager? As a teenager. And it was so difficult for me to understand the concept because I'm like, but why? Because you're very logical. Right? You're like, if you're with me, why would you? Then don't be with me. So you can't understand the concept of it. Why did he say it again? I was traveling. I was not in the country. I was traveling. So I think I was in Australia or something for a while and yeah. Just dating? Yeah. But that wasn't, like, a serious relationship anyway, so I don't think it really hurt me or it really, I was heartbroken. I don't think I've actually been very heartbroken earlier on in my life. It was like a whatever relationship. Nothing serious. Let me introduce you to the average marriage market. There's a lot of Oh, god. People, Marwadi, boys out there. Boys. Yeah. I think so. But You've never dated anyone that you felt like marrying? Not before. Maybe some time ago. Yeah. Some one person was One. Just one. But, again, no. No. Actually, no. I haven't. Have you told your parents you're open to arrange marriage? I mean, they've asked me many times. I've always been saying that, okay. We'll see. We'll see. Give me some time. Give me another year. Give me another year. So I've been taking that one one year because I don't know. I just feel like it matters just something that just needs to happen. You know? You just need to meet someone and feel like, okay. I think this person would be a great life partner. As much as there's love and this and that and all of that, I agree. But it has to be, like, a well made good decision. You know? You can't just go with love, I feel. You need to decide. Should go to Banaras and ask for it. Go to Kashi and play Bhagwan. Shivji. Yeah. Shivji. How beautiful would that be? I see I see that with a lot of, again, girls our age, lot of Shivji Shiv Shakti. Yeah. You know, I've had I had this dialogue in one film also. I did it. It was a Telugu dialogue. Which means I want a guy like lord Ram. Oh, wow. Wow. So nice. Yeah. So I think somewhere maybe. Let's let's manifest that. You know? Mhmm. Someone like lord. You definitely need an Indian guy. I you know something? For some reason, I am I mean, some, you know, foreigners, they look great and everything is great, but I can't imagine myself with a foreigner. I don't know why. I just I think I'm too desi. Yeah. That's that's one aspect. I also feel key, if you're an Indian and if you're an artist Mhmm. There's too much philosophy already in your head. Yeah. That's highly Indian, and you need to match that frequency with any other Indian person. Yeah. Like, I just don't feel it. Yeah. Otherwise. I think I need an Indian. Like, you know, how would you explain this Ramji angle to some American people? Like, yeah. Yeah. Like just, just, you know, it's it's too layered. Indian. It is. Indian Dharam and all this. Yeah. What did you like about Banaras? I love the energy there. I think, so I stayed in this hotel called Bridge something. It's on the guts. So I had actually gone there for shoot. I shot for this film called smart Shankar there. And, so, oh my god. I didn't tell you this. So I went to the temple, and that was the first time my mom joined me at a shoot. So she came for a day. My parents never come to my shoot ever. I guess they they get bored or something, So they never, like, accompany me or anything, but I had called her because I wanted to do the darshan. And I just went and I just prayed, and I was like, god, if this film doesn't work, I will leave. But if I'm meant to stay in this industry as an actor, show me a sign with the result of this film. And that film became a huge blockbuster unexpectedly. No one thought that film would, you know, become this huge, but it became a huge, huge blockbuster. So So I was like, okay. Maybe that's my sign to stay then. Because I was like, this is my answer. If this doesn't work, I'm out. If this works, I'll stay. Do you remember which Mandar you went to? I went to the Kashi Vishwana Temple. Did the Abhishek there in the morning. Abhishek come, they say, in south. So I did that in the morning, and that was when I also hit my head, on so there was this temple that I had to go into, and the wall was really low. So I just got up, and I just hit my head so badly that there were just, like, hot tears coming down. You know? I didn't I couldn't even react. It was just instant. But after that, my entire perspective on life, on God, spirituality, myself completely changed. You know, there's one thing they say about number eight. Right? So this is number eight. But they say when you become spiritual, it becomes infinity. So I think that's what happened to me, in Kashi. That eight just became infinity. You had to go through that pain as a karmic lens. I think so because that was really painful. It was stone, and it was right here. It was in Kashi Vishwina? It was in Kashi Vishwina. That's a good thing. Yeah. Then I don't feel bad for you. Yeah. So it's something nice. Bad for you. But thank you. It's fine. It's fine. Life became nice after that. Life became very, very different after that. I think I stopped. So I'm very detached from results in my life. Also, my Ketu time is going on. But yeah. So I It's Ketu. Oh. So that's gotten some great lessons for me as well. So I have seemingly become very detached from people, from results, from, everything. Yeah. I'm just becoming more and more detached, I think, from things. You know, because this theme has come up again, I'm gonna take away a tangent Mhmm. That's in my head. Yeah. So in the last two days, there was this one clip that went viral of Shubhman Gill. Okay. Okay? Shubhman Gill is, like, India's new cricket superstar. Yeah. And he's recently been dropped from one of our three teams Okay. To the t twenty team. Mhmm. Now as the media in India sometimes does its thing Mhmm. In a press conference, he was questioned about being dropped. Hey, man. How do you feel? How will you feel? Yeah. You feel. And his response was so nice. Mhmm. He repeated the same lesson that we've spoken about. Right. But sometimes you just need that pop culture figure to repeat it, to remind yourself. Absolutely. And I messaged him saying, bro, love this. Yeah. He said that, Hey, I'm giving my 100% all the time. And I know that what's in my destiny can't be taken away from you. Yeah. It can't. And that's why I'm okay with it because I'm putting in my 100% effort and I'm confident in my own life. Very mature. Wow. Very well said. That's my captain. Yeah. That's the Indian captain. Absolutely. No. I agree with you. You need that mindset. And I also feel like people, like even the audience, everybody needs to always look at things as a whole. You don't look at today, today, today, today, today. Today is yesterday, tomorrow. You know, it's not just about. It's not that. You you see the greatest of the greatest people who have lived on this planet. You know, the most famous people who have lived. They've all had a journey of ups and downs. Yeah. Yeah. It's not just up and up and up. No one's life is like that. No. You know? So even on top, the person is as talented. Even at their lowest, that same person is as talented. Yeah. So talent has nothing to do with where you are in life. Yeah. You know, there's this lesson that I think I learned fairly late as a media professional and helped me out with this. Because I know you'll get what I'm saying, but if I'm articulating it correctly. Mhmm. So social media engagement has become a bit of a metric, especially in our world as content creators. How many views? How Yeah. But the thing is, now take a step back. And when we were growing up in India in the nineties and February, there were so many superstars. Yeah. You go on their social media stuff now. They are not getting that much engagement. No. They are not. They can be, like, 10 k, 15 k likes. I also think, again, even that's an up and down journey. Yeah. And eventually, you'll be remembered for your decades of work. Absolutely. Being remembered interests you as a concept. Yeah. Again. Yeah. Like, because I I've also noticed that everyone who obsesses over legacy ends up in sadness. Mhmm. Everyone goes, oh, I wanna build a legacy. I see this with athletes, actors. Just chill out and work. I don't know. I feel like nowadays it's not possible to build a legacy. I mean, I could be wrong, but everything is so temporary. Yeah. It's just news is two days. Anything sticks around for two days, and then they forget about it. You know, a person's career, whatever, like a film or a great win is remembered for, like, a week, and then it's done. Have you ever had a conversation like this with Pawan Kalyan, sir? Oh my god. Pawan Kalyan, sir. So he I have to say first of all, let me give you some backstory about him. He is a phenomenon. Right? Like, he is equivalent to God in Andhra and Telangana. Like, equivalent to God. The kind of grace that he has is unmatched. Like, it's unparalleled. And I realized that when I was working with him so the moment people came to know I'm working with him, they all were like, do well. You're working with our God and everything. And I was like, okay. Great. I will I'll try my best. But he's such an intelligent man. He is so there's something about his aura, Ranvir. It's it's very magnetic. And whatever he does, it's the way he sits, the way he stands, the way he speaks. He can do anything. It just feels like, for the lack of a better word, mass. You know, it just feels like that. But very intelligent person, very bold person. I think he has the courage to say things that people would not normally talk about. He's very, bold, honest, open in public, which is always dangerous, but I think his fans love him for that. And he is, like, beyond box office. Hits or flops don't affect his career at all. Yeah. So it's a part of the reason I brought up his name here. Yeah. These are all personalities that are way beyond. They are beyond the box office collection. Like, beyond. There's a race. It's taken time and human effort to Absolutely. Reach that point. Absolutely. Time, human effort, and also some kind of situations I think that they have very openly faced in the public eye where people saw their real character, their real personality, and fell in love with that. So they have, like, personality fans. What's the core reading of Pawan Kalyan, sir? I think he's like a courageous. He's he's like a lion. Like, he can stand alone, and he just has the guts that nobody else has. I don't know why I'm saying this. Like but I won't be surprised if he becomes the PM of our country eventually. I won't be surprised either. I really won't. Like, seriously, I won't because I feel he's so he's been working in politics for many, many years. It's just that he won now. So his name has come, you know, to the upfront, but he's been working for many years. He's been building up his team, his system, his party, and everything. And I feel like he's bold, courageous, always stands for the right. Yeah. And the one thing I know about any politician is that they enter the game to reach the top. Yeah. So but only some people can. And Yeah. I feel if you've navigated the film world with so much nuance for so long and then had a successful political Yeah. You're in prime position too. Yeah. And simultaneously doing both as well. I mean, two most pressurizing not most. There's sports as well, but one of the most pressurizing, careers to have. Right? Politics and films. Too much of pressure, mental pressure. I wonder what that, you know, hunger looks like. I feel for him, it's a lot about the people. So I have and I've seen this. Like, I've seen him talking to, you know, the rooted people. I've seen him talking to them and asking them their issues and working on that, coming up with a change for that. Not just talking them for public talking to them for publicity, but coming up with changes as well. Can I ask you about Rajneet Khan as well? Rajneet Khan, sir. Yeah. I mean, I've not worked with him, but he is huge. I mean, even today so whenever you talk about me, a lot of numbers will come in, you know, more than anything. Even today, he brings in huge numbers as an opening. He has a huge business because people of Tamil Nadu will go for his film regardless of anything. The film doesn't even matter. It's just if it has Rajnekhand, that's all they want. With him, I know for a fact because I know certain things about him from the spiritual community, and he spends a lot lot of time in ashrams, and he goes to the East towns. There's spiritual force inside of him. Yeah. Yeah. That's what's driving the outward thing that the world is seeing as material success. Yeah. I it has to be, you know, actually on some level to reach that position. I think somewhere it has to be. Would you ever want that in any lifetime of yours? That quantum of success? I mean, if any, it would have to be this lifetime. This lifetime? Yeah. If it has to be any lifetime, it would have to be this. But after this, no. I I would not want that. I would really just wanna be happy on a farm somewhere. Not stressing, not even knowing of Twitter and Instagram and all of that. I would just wanna be, like, in a very different zone in life. But so that's why. If it has to be any, it has to be this one. On a farm somewhere. Yeah. Nice. Happy with lots of animals and lots of, you know yeah. And a nice Indian dhat. And a nice Indian Marwadi boy. No. Doesn't have to be Marwadi. Doesn't have to be Marwadi. It doesn't have to be Marwadi. Why not? I mean, it doesn't matter. Have you dated any non Marwadi boy? I've dated only non Marwadi boys. I I don't think I've ever dated a Marwadi boy. Okay. Yeah. So where where which community have you felt compatible at you with? Maybe South Indian? Oh. Maybe. Because I've been working the most in the South. But, honestly, I don't know. Any specific South Indian? No. That I don't know. Kannada boys. Kannada. Have I dated a Kannada? I don't think so. I don't know. Okay. I don't know. But see, that doesn't matter. Okay. So it doesn't have to be a Madwadi, but yeah. This has to be a good person. I'll tell you from where this question is coming. Like, I'm Punjabi. Mhmm. My dad's also Punjabi. Mhmm. My mom's Gujarati. Gujarati. Yeah. And it's apparently a stereotype that Punjabi guys go really well with Gujarati girls. Oh. Oh. So you're gonna find yourself a nice Gujarati girl. Yeah. I think like, there's a reason why Gujabi is a song. Uh-huh. There's there's actually because it's very it's very balanced. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. I think so. Like I'm Punjabi and I love my Punjabi bros, but we're all a little crazy. A little crazy? You need balance. So the Bujratiness brings in the balance. And you need someone to show you your place. Always. Always. Always. So Always. True. So, therefore, I throw the ball at you. For me, I I don't think that matters. For me, it's just, Indian is good enough. Indian. Indian. That's it. Okay. Not very specific. Indian. Where else have you traveled to in India? Oh my god. So I have gone all around Andhra Pradesh and Telangana for store openings and for events, like, literally the interior most interior places I have been to. All for work. Any temple that had stayed with you? Temple? I remember going to, Ujjain. I think that was lovely. There's a temple also there. I went there. That was lovely. Of course, Tirupati. So many. Kashi to is there. And, the Madurai, there's a temple. Minakshi Temple. So many temples. Yeah. And there's actually one really small temple in Bangalore. It's called the energy temple. It's supposed to balance out all your chakras. Mansa light? I don't know what it's called, unfortunately. I'll I'll send you the message later so you can put the name there. But it's supposed to balance your chakras out. So I love going there. It's very far away from my house, but I still go there. Is it kinda near the airport? Old airport. It's near the old airport, not the new one. Same thing. Probably the I don't not many people know. I'm surprised. Tower, the Astral Tower. I think yeah. How do you even know about this? Hardly anyone knows about this. Because, you know, I don't the thing is it's so secret and so powerful Yeah. That I almost don't wanna talk about it on the show. Oh. Yeah. I didn't know that, but it's that's a very powerful temple. Yeah. It's called Manasa Light Foundation. Mhmm. Now there's a book called Doorways to Light by someone called Guruji Krishnananda. Okay. All all I can say is this is one of the most powerful yet unknown spots in India. It is. Yeah. And I'm very hesitant about even mentioning it on the show. But if it's entered this conversation, I guess it wants to. It's it's a beautiful temple because it balances your own chakras out. You know what I mean? Are you getting bored of this conversation? No. Are you? No. Because I am not. This is like, dude, I woke up with a lot of positivity today for whatever. I'm glad. I'm glad. And my, moment of waking up, dictates a lot of the day for me. Same here. Same here. I mean, for me, though, as soon as I wake up for twenty minutes, I'm like, no one talk to me. I need that time. You know? Because then if something happens, then then my whole day is I don't think this is ego speaking. Mhmm. Because I've truly submitted even this show to the divine. Mhmm. So I feel like anyone who's brought to this show is brought for a reason, and then I'm just doing a duty. I think so. I think the timing is also right. Maybe, so I think the last four months of my life have been very, very, weird, you know, for me. Lots of ups, lots of downs. It's been crazy the last four months. So it's it's nice to have, like, a positive divine conversation with a spiritual being who really Having a human journey. Yeah. I I feel it's lovely. Because somewhere, I feel like you understand what I'm talking about. You know? You look for a spiritual tribe in the material plane. And I'm I'm surprised and really happy to be talking to someone like that because half the times I feel people don't get it. They just feel like, oh, Nidhito is always in a different zone. Because once someone asked me this question, my trainer, I think he was like, so which city would you like to live in? And I was like, let me make this a happy place to live in. And then anywhere that I live is doesn't matter. You know? So you need those kind of people to interact with, right, in life. Yeah. Can you talk about the last four months? Oh, my god. Should I? Okay. Why not? Whatever you're comfortable. Yeah. So the last four or five months have been, like, a lot of highs in terms of work, but a lot of lows in terms of my, personal life. You know? So the highs have been great. The lows have also been and it's all it's all, like, happening together. And navigating a successful career there. Yeah. So it's it's just been, like, confusing in a way, you know, whether what to feel. But I think everything has a divine timing, a divine reason. And once your karmic balance with someone is closed, it's it's done. Yeah. People visit your life for a limited amount of time. That's pre decided. I think so. And also teach you some great lessons. Yeah. You know? Yeah. Learned any nice lessons? Oh my god. So many lessons. I think the biggest, biggest lesson I've learned in the last couple of years is that, the only person who's gonna be there for yourself is you. You know? So you've got to make your mind, your emotional space a good space to be in because, literally, the only person who's gonna be there for you is you. You broke up. Ranveer. Oh my god. No. It it wasn't like that. I think it was much more complicated than that. It was more of a situation not a situationship. It was more of a I don't know what that means exactly, situationship. I've been trying to wrap my head around it, hanging out with the Gen z badge. But, what is the situation, Trevor Gen z? I still don't get it. It seems like an open relationship to me. It's it's it's not open relationship. Like, you are in relationship also, but you are not fully, fully committed. That is an open relationship. Yeah. But you are not looking for other souls. You're just not And why are you not committed? You're not giving it a tag of, like, back to me. Beyond beyond my understanding. Yeah. But, yeah, situations, I think. Okay. We weren't talking about situationship here. Yeah. This was a relationship. This was a relationship. Mutually parted ways. Because this was not the father of your children. No. This was not. Yeah. That's yeah. It's a very it's a very millennial to millennial college. Yeah. Even though guys, you're looking for a girl who could be the mother of your children. And vice versa. Eventually, it is that. I think it's a very primal thought. Right? At the stage of life we're at, where career is, like, established now. Now you're looking for life. There's so much more to life than building a career. A 100%. Yes. I mean, this is that's how I look at my work. Yeah. I love my work, but it's my job. You know, my job is not my life. Yeah. Life is beyond that. I need to be happy, fulfilled. I need to have a life beyond my work. What are your green flags as a partner? My green flags, I think it would be understanding, loving. Softness, nurturing. Too nurturing. I told you that motherly so now I want someone who'll take care of me. That would be great. I think every human wants someone to take care of them. I think so. I used to think it's every man wants someone wants a girl who will take care of them, but girls wanted to. Yeah. So I think, all of that. And at some level, I think very or like, what's the right way to say this? Not helping, but very, like, united in a way where things always become about us more than you and me. So I would do as much for the other person as I would for myself. Do you want an ambitious man? Not very ambitious. No. Should know where to draw the line. Yeah. Should know that this is work and life is more important. Not not very ambitious. No. Like, ambitious, maybe I I would want a hardworking man, but not a very, like, only ambition. No. Have you dated that? Only ambition? No. Okay. No. Mhmm. Yeah. Because you hear a lot of women saying they're attracted to ambition, but there's a flip side to ambition. I think there is. Which is damage from childhood, which is, like, lots of time given to work, which is obsession with work. And I feel like somewhere people like that like, ambition is a great thing. So I'm a very ambitious person, but I'm a very satisfied, ambitious person. It's a very contradictory thing I know. Satiated. Yeah. Satiated, but ambitious. So I'm not, like, dying for something. It's great if it comes. I'll put in my best, but I'm not I'm good. I know this is all temporary. One day, it'll be gone. They'll be like, who is Nidhi? Which is fine. Great. Feel like this is No problem. Nidhi. I I think so. And now it's becoming like that. Do you mind, though? Not really. It's okay. If if not now, then when. Right? So why not? But, what was I saying? Yeah. So united. One thing I can tell you based on me getting to know you over the course of this episode is that you need someone, I think Mhmm. You need someone outside of media. I agree with you. I agree with you. I mean, there are some great people even Yeah. You know, in our industry, but I feel like the amount of dependability that I would require from my partner would be, more. Yeah. Yeah. There is a joy in not having any element of fame around one's life and not being into the concept of fame. I've seen this in few people and they're some of the happiest people I know. Yeah. You know, I mean, I meet some people. Okay. They're so excited about going out on a Friday night. They're so excited about watching like a film or traveling somewhere. And I'm like, this is nice. Yeah. Yeah. You know, this is nice, actually. It's it's a good change from even my own mind. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Because I think chase for fame dictates a lot of other decisions. Mhmm. A lot. Yeah. So that factor is not there in the first place. True. As long as one is not being obsessive about money Mhmm. But just knowing how to manage it well and kinda earning it Yeah. That's the sweet spot according to me based on all the people I've met. Yeah. And even for me, like, in terms of money, I feel like for me, money is something that I have a very healthy relationship with. Maybe because my name is Nidhi, so the name has My name is Nidhi Agarwal. Agarwal. So there's money and money. No. But I I think I have a very healthy relationship with money where I, I don't know. I'm I'm good with it. I'm not obsessive, but I love it. But at the same time, like, I'm good. Like, I don't think too much about it. And even in terms of my future, I don't think that would be, like, a very big factor that I'm looking for, you know, how usually people do. For me, it's not that important. Do you like expensive gifts? I like to see I I like to be no. Not really. I like to be in a place where if I like something, I should be able to buy it. I don't have to think about how much it costs, and I don't need to plan that, okay. Can I buy this? I don't wanna be in that space. As long as I'm not in that space, I'm good. Then I it it doesn't matter how much it is. You know? And that would come from my income. So I'm not, like, looking for someone to be dependent on that person. That's something that I'm very scared of, which is also a part of the reason why I think I'm independent is because I don't wanna depend on anyone for anything. Manifesting a nice South Indian. South Indian. Business boy. Also understands Shani and Doesn't have to be South Indian, though. Any whatever. I I think A nice a nice boy with a good family boy. With a good family. Good family. Good upbringing. Not not like a family where they step in and kinda dissect the relationship. I mean, like, joint family or, like, very involved family is great, but they should be good people. That's important. Because one marries the family and not just the individual. Absolutely. Yeah. This has been a spectacular conversation. I can talk to you. I think we've spoken so much about my marriage on this episode. My mother is gonna be very happy to watch this episode. You're most welcome. Don't don't worry. We we got this cover. You also face those shadhi conversation? All the time. My mom is so so all my relatives are getting married. Right? People younger than me are getting married, and my mom is having, like, panic attacks. How do you feel attending those? Honestly, I feel great, but people around me feel like, oh, she didn't get married. And I'm like, I'm good. You know? Do do boys come up to you and pitch themselves saying, hey, Naniya. We had this marriage. Yeah. No. No. No. Well, that hasn't happened. But, I mean, I have that does happen. The whole marriage conversation does come up. Do guys approach you and just pitch themselves for marriage? Yeah. I mean, not like come and say, hi. I wanna marry you. Not like that. But If someone did, how would you feel? I don't know. I mean, it depends on who? Energy. Energy, vibe, intention. Mhmm. Depends on who. But there have been, like, approaches for possible life. Yeah. Without saying it's an approach. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. And what's your protocol? My protocol is depends on who the person is. So as of now, no. Okay. Haven't Can can you just describe your ideal husband? Ideal husband. The most wonderful man on this planet. Yeah. That would be my ideal husband. That's it? Person. The most wonderful person. Heart. Calm, collected. Calm, collected, respectful, loving, kind. Very important. Unmedia esque. Very unmedia esque. Nice. No planning, plotting, all that. I I can't because I myself don't do that. I wish I did sometimes. Because if if I did, I would be very good at it. Planning and plotting? Yeah. But I don't. I don't have the energy. I'm visualizing lots of men. Yes, DM'ing you right now. Oh, gosh. My DMs are gonna be now of the Shadi Rishtas. I'm not even kidding. That's happened on this show earlier. Are you serious? This is a Swayambar themed show. Oh, great. So ours is a I never expected this, Ranveer. I thought we'll be talking about, like, more of spirituality, but we went into Shadi. Yeah. Yeah. See, like, my main TG is women our mom's age. So any actors on the show Yeah. Who's saying they opened a marriage, I feel the parents get very happy with me. Obviously. Obviously. No. But even my dad sometimes like, beta, now you should think about it. And I'm like, yeah. Little more type. I've noticed this in my bros my age, who are married. It adds, like, some other level of stability to a guy's life, and I think it adds that same kind of stability to a guy's life. Percent. Yes. It does. Because there's no option of okay. I don't like this. Yeah. It's not that easy to leave. And somewhere, I think it makes you very, centered in a way. Not that you're not centered otherwise. You are. But there is a layer of comfort that comes in. Yeah. It's it's almost like month's twenties are like the wild west. You know? Yeah. Go out in the world, see things, see heartbreak, failure. Then in your thirties, you kind of want what school and college felt like again in a different way. I think you do now. Yeah. Like, I remember in my twenties, I used to dread having kids as a concept because I was like, I won't be able to put my mind through what school and college felt like again. Yeah. And now at 32, I'm hungry for it again. Oh, you want kids as well? How lovely, Radvir. I think you'll be a great dad, by the way. Yeah. I'm I'm a little scared. I might be as a dad. You think so? Yeah. You think you'll be a bit strict? I I really think so. I'm scared for my own kids, but I'll try balancing it out. But maybe you you'll get someone who's, like, very soft, so you'll balance it out. Yeah. Yeah. The both of you. That's also important in a way, though. The most, like, important thing my parents have done for me when I was amongst, like I can I can write a book on this, but Yeah? The one thing that stands out more than anything is that my mom saw I was a very high energy kid and put me into martial arts. Lovely. Egg egged it on. Yeah. Keep going. Keep going. Yeah. And I went to, like, very good level in martial arts, and then I stopped the martial arts. But what it left me with was this, like, really, like, fighter, disciplined mentality. Discipline and that Everything good came from that. Yeah. Yeah. So I'll want to put guy, girl, doesn't matter. Go into martial arts. Yeah. Martial arts and dancing. Yeah. And so my parents put me into ballet, which is a very different not a normal form of dance that people would put their kids in. So I've learned ballet for eight years and really discipline, hard work. You know, it all comes from there. Yeah. We had Vidyo Jamwal on the show some time ago. Yeah. Yeah. And I first asked him about yoga and stretching. Mhmm. And he said that both martial arts and dance is like yoga and motion. Yeah. Absolutely. Very well said. Yeah. Shift something inside you. Yeah. It does. It does. Yeah. Also, the world's becoming a fitter place. Yeah. And it also brings in a lot of confidence in you, I feel. You know, where when you're younger, then it's not about, oh, which car am I going in or which brand T shirt am I wearing? It's more about what am I? Yeah. I'm the brand. Yeah. I wanna instill that in my kids. So no business class tickets. No nothing. Yeah. It's gonna be about Yeah. What are you? How talented? Not even how talented. You are loved unconditionally. But what are you? What are your skills? Yeah. The you know, the challenge is how do you give a rich baby Mhmm. A middle class mindset so so that it can live through and maintain its own riches. It's so important, I feel. Very, very important. Yeah. Yeah. Fatherhood and motherhood. So we've spoken about marriage, kids, instilling the right samskaras. This is the this is the conversation I would have had with you even when I met you at a party. I think so. But imagine we met at a party. We would be speaking like this for, like, such a long time, but it's very rare that you meet people that you can really engage with and have a conversation. Especially for me, very difficult. Yeah. No. No. Again, one of those episodes that I knew was gonna happen Yeah. Honestly, even before you had messaged. I'd seen you on Reynolds' show back then. Reynolds, I remember. Oh my god. 2017 or 2018? Yeah. That was my initial entry into this world. Munna Michael. Munna Michael. Yeah. And my thought that that point was, oh, need to host Nadee on the show at some point. How sweet. So it's taken a good eight years, seven years? Seven years. It it took its time, but divine timing. Could have spoken to you for six more hours? I think so. Because there's so much I feel like I still have to say, but great. Yeah. You know, man, at the end of this, I just like to say I'm looking forward to your next two, three years. I thought you're looking forward to my marriage. Marriage also. I'm looking forward to attend. I'm kidding. I'm kidding. I think the next two, three years of your life are going to be very magical. And I say that because I feel everyone's external world becomes the internal world, and your internal world is, like, full of magic. Thank you. So, like, that's Thank you so much. What I have felt, what everyone has felt. Yes. Thank you. Just wish you more peace and spiritual energy that you're accumulating because of whatever practices you're doing. Yeah. Because you're definitely doing something. Yeah. And it's helping every room that you enter. Thank you. So thank you. Thank you. Thank you so much. It means a lot. It was lovely, and I've had the most amazing conversation with you. Same. You're a lovely person, and you have such a clean aura and such a clean heart. And you work so hard. It's not easy to make it, you know, to where you've made it to. So I'm super proud of you. Thank you. Thank you. That means a lot. That means a lot. Hope to see you again over the years. Yes. For sure. Okay. Thank you, Nip. Thank you.
